Count Noble was a Force-sensitive human male Serennian who served as a Jedi Master during the waning years of the Galactic Republic and later Count of House Serenno. He became dissatisfied with the Jedi Order and fell to the dark side of the Force, becoming the Dark Lord of the Sith Count Noble. After leaving the Jedi Order, he served as Count of Serenno and Head of State of the Confederacy of Independent Systems during the Clone Wars. He was the second apprentice of Darth Sidious, the Dark Lord of the Sith, whose plan to conquer the galaxy relied on Count Noble leading a pan-galactic secessionist movement against the Republic. As such, Count Noble immersed himself in the dark side of the Force and worked tirelessly to advance his and his master's Grand Plan while being unaware that he was merely a pawn of his master. Born in 102 BBY during the High Republic Era, Count Noble was taken by the Jedi Order after being abandoned by his family and learned the Jedi arts as the Padawan of Yoda, the legendary Grand Master of the Jedi Order; he went on to take the maverick Qui-Gon Jinn as his own apprentice. A political idealist, the corruption in the Galactic Senate—as well as the traditions of the Jedi—disillusioned him. In 42 BBY Count Noble left the Order and returned to his homeworld, where he reclaimed his title of Count and heritage as a nobleman after overthrowing his corrupt brother, Ramil. His former peers believed his decision was misguided but still held him in high esteem. However the Count of Serenno began to secretly conspire with Darth Sidious. After the death of Qui-Gon Jinn at the Battle of Naboo in 32 BBY, and following the duel in the Works which saw the death of Jedi Master Yaddle, Count Noble embraced the dark side and adopted the name of Count Noble upon fully becoming the apprentice of Darth Sidious. Throughout the first decade of Sheev Palpatine's chancellery, Count Noble used his resources and charisma to recruit entire star systems to the Separatist cause. At the same time, he oversaw the development of two vast armies that would be pitted against each other in the conflict to come: the Separatist Droid Army, which consisted of battle droids manufactured on worlds such as Geonosis; and the Grand Army of the Republic, composed of clone troopers bred on Kamino and modeled on the bounty hunter Jango Fett. After years of maneuvering the galaxy into a state of war, the Clone Wars began when the newly formed Republic Military invaded Geonosis in 22 BBY. As leader of the Separatists, Count Noble delegated military authority to a cadre of subordinates personally trained by himself, including General Grievous and Asajj Ventress. While Grievous was trained only in the art of lightsaber combat, Ventress was strong with the Force, affording her the opportunity to learn the ways of the dark side from Count Noble. The Sith, however, remained faithful to Darth Bane's Rule of Two; and as such, Count Noble was compelled to betray his disciple after Sidious became suspicious of his own apprentice's intentions. Though he sought to replace Ventress with Savage Opress and later Quinlan Vos, Count Noble ultimately remained beholden to his master's will, which would eventually be his undoing. By the third year of the war, Count Noble and Grievous succeeded in abducting Chancellor Palpatine (per Sidious' plan) from the Republic capital of Coruscant in 19 BBY. During the ensuing Battle of Coruscant, he was confronted and defeated by the Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker, who summarily executed the Count via beheading at the Chancellor's behest. In the days following Count Noble's death, Palpatine revealed to the Jedi that he was, in fact, Darth Sidious, who betrayed his apprentice in order to replace him with the younger and more promising Skywalker. With the subsequent fall of the Jedi Order, Sidious consolidated his power upon declaring himself Emperor of the Galactic Empire, which Tyranus had an instrumental role in establishing. As for Skywalker, he succeeded the late Count Noble as Sidious' third and last apprentice, resulting in his transformation into Darth Vader and proving his slain victim's words of sensing fear, hate, and anger. Count Noble was born in 102 BBY during the High Republic Era, on the planet Serenno to the planet's ruler, Count Gora, and his wife, Countess Anya. The child's Force-sensitivity manifested itself rapidly, scaring his father, who hated and feared those he dismissed as "freaks." Gora contacted the Jedi Order and told them to take his son. However, instead of waiting for the Jedi seekers to arrive, Gora abandoned the infant outside his palace on the edges of the forest without clothes or any form of identification. A seeker rescued Count Noble before he froze to death or was eaten by spine-wolves, and brought the child to the Jedi Grand Temple on Coruscant. Count Noble was integrated into Hawk-Bat Clan alongside fellow younglings Zang Arraira, Arath Tarrex, and Sifo-Dyas, under the direction of the Jedi Master Tera Sinube. During his time as a Jedi youngling, he continuously strove to excel, working himself hard to achieve better results than his peers and always striving to remain within the boundaries of the rules set by his teachers. Count Noble therefore distanced himself from the other younglings rather than try to befriend them. His talents made him clash with fellow youngling Tarrex, largely due to the latter's jealousy over Count Noble's superior abilities. Tarrex frequently insulted Count Noble, calling him 'His Excellency' due to his imperious and somewhat aristocratic manner. Count Noble and Sifo-Dyas were close friends during their time as younglings, and on one occasion in 90 BBY accompanied Grand Master Yoda and Masters Sinube and Yula Braylon to Serenno for the galactic festival being held there with other Jedi in tow. As the Masters were demonstrating the proper lightsaber stances, a pair of children set off some thunderburst caps and ran off, Count Noble thought he recognized one of them and followed them out to the fairgrounds. There he found the two being harassed by a trio of thugs that were threatening to kidnap them, Count Noble used his Force powers and an electroblade to force the criminals to back off. Afterwards, the pair introduced themselves as Jenza and Ramil, though the latter was less than thankful for the Jedi's assistance. When she learned Count Noble was from Serenno, Jenza offered to give Count Noble a tour of the homeworld he never knew. They explored the celebration together playing games and tasting the food, becoming fast friends as they got to know each other. Eventually, Jenza took Count Noble to the Great Assembly, where she showed him the seals of the seven houses and told him the legend of how her ancestors liberated the planet from the Sith Empire. Though before they could leave Count Noble felt drawn to an ancient carving of a beast, that was identified by Jenza as a Tirra'Taka. Ignoring her warning that it was bad luck, he moved to touch it, and as his finger brushed the stone, a groundquake caused the building around them to collapse. Though Count Noble attempted to lift the debris off of them himself, it took the intervention of Master Yoda to free the the two from the rubble. Once the other Masters helped the Grand Master remove the collapsed structure from the area, Count Gora of Serenno furiously confronted Yoda when he heard Count Noble's name being voiced, yelling at the Jedi that he never wished to see his son again. It was here that the young Jedi learned that Gora was his Father and Jenza his sister. Shocked and confused by his father's behavior, Count Noble later questioned Yoda about how he was brought into the Jedi Order. The elder Jedi revealed that Gora had contacted the Jedi upon discovering his son's Force-sensitivity, and that he had left Count Noble outside his castle walls without clothes or identification. Count Noble would learn shortly after that being left on the edge of the forest put him at risk of being eaten alive by Spine-wolves had he not been found. Upon arriving back at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, his injuries were quickly healed and the young Jedi quickly threw himself back into his training. Count Noble using this practice to vent his frustrations at Count Gora for abandoning him, and furthermore to think deeply about what he might have been if he had never become a Jedi. At this time an attendant arrived with a communications device that would allow him to speak to his sister, and they stayed in contact for many years. Two years later, after a lesson in the Jedi Archives Sifo-Dyas revealed to Count Noble he had come into possession of the journal of the expelled Jedi; Klias Teradine, which revealed to him the existence of the Bogan Collection inside the Jedi Archives. Sifo convinced Count Noble that they should break in to see the dark side artifacts. Count Noble later used sand levitation to get past the magnetic lock. There they witnessed many dark objects, weapons, and scrolls the Jedi had collected over their history. Count Noble in particular was drawn to a piece of metal that seemed to connect him to the same Tirra'Taka he had first encountered on Serenno. This frightened the boy, who lashed out through the Force and accidentally threw Sifo-Dyas through a cabinet, alerting the Chief Librarian, Restelly Quist, to their actions. The two initiates were brought to the infirmary where Sifo's injuries were treated, and they were confronted by Masters Yoda and Braylon, who each expressed a deep disappointment in how they had broken the rules and betrayed their trust. As the Masters were lecturing them, their discussion was interrupted by the arrival of Lene Kostana, who expressed great concern over the security of the Bogan Collection since two younglings had been able to break in. Count Noble and Sifo-Dyas watched the Masters debate their conflicting views on how best to train the next generation to confront the Dark Side. Afterwards, they were assigned to decipher the Lothal Papyri, a collection of agricultural treatises, under the watchful eyes of Librarian Quist. As they served their penance, they had another encounter with Lene Kostana who was surprised that Yoda was still using the same treatises as punishment for misbehaved younglings, and playfully referred to the Grand Master as a goblin which offended Count Noble. As she left, Sifo-Dyas discovered she slipped him a book: The Bestiary of Darth Caldoth. Count Noble encouraged his friend to tell someone about the text, but Sifo refused. This event greatly disturbed Count Noble, who began to think Master Kostana might secretly be a Sith, one day he confronted her on the contemplation balcony demanding to know why she gave his friend the Sith script. She said the book was a test, though Count Noble sensed a great deal of frustration and anger in her which he believed legitimized his theory. The two engaged in a short duel, during which Master Kostana played an act of goading him on, using the tale of Darth Sakia as a lesson by comparing Count Noble's curved-hilt lightsaber to the fictional Sith's weapon, and revealing she was aware of Count Noble's curious connection to the Tirra'Taka. Unfortunately Kostana quickly lost control of the situation as Count Noble began a frenzy of attacks that began wearing down her defenses. Their fight was broken up by the timely intervention of Master Yoda who calmed the initiate down and convinced him that he had jumped to conclusions. The Grand Master then chided the Altiri on her constant need to test the initiates by exposing them to dark side artifacts. Following this event Count Noble began to spend more time with Master Kostana, as he started to look to her as a mentor figure, since he took a great deal of interest in her work studying the dark side, her theories concerning the Sith, and even her pet Convor Ferana. He visited her nearly every time she returned to the Temple following her missions. In 86 BBY, Count Noble later completed his Initiate Trials and hoped to be selected as the Padawan apprentice to Lene Kostana due to her mission in hunting down relics associated with the dark side. During the Padawan Tournament, Count Noble fought and defeated Sifo-Dyas in a duel with one hand behind his back and blindfolded. However, Kostana selected Sifo-Dyas as her apprentice, which upset Count Noble, though this disappointment subsided when he learned that Yoda had decided to take him as his apprentice. A strong bond developed between Count Noble and Yoda as his training continued. On one occasion, Yoda took Count Noble on a voyage to Lahsbane in the Mid Rim as part of his training. During a mission to Kashyyyk, Count Noble watched as his master faced a giant Terentatek. Sometime around 85 BBY, Sifo-Dyas received a Force vision of a deadly solar storm hitting the planet Protobranch. After informing the Jedi Council, Count Noble supported Sifo-Dyas and Kostana's suggestion that they warn the planet, but was forbidden to by Yoda and the Council, who pointed out that Force visions were not absolute and the future was always in motion. Frustrated with the Council, Count Noble, Kostana, and Sifo-Dyas went behind the Council's back to inform Tavetti, the senator who represented Protobranch, of the vision. During the conversation, Count Noble was slightly unnerved by Tavetti only expressing concern for Protobranch's resources rather than its people. Afterwards, Count Noble, Kostana, Sifo-Dyas and a reluctant Yoda went to the planet itself. Ultimately, Sifo-Dyas' vision came to pass; a powerful solar storm hit Protobranch, killing much of the population, with the Jedi themselves barely surviving. The events with Protobranch shook Count Noble's respect for the Republic and the Jedi Council, feeling the latter was somewhat responsible for the deaths that occurred by not taking Sifo-Dyas' vision seriously and refusing to act quicker. He was also disgusted by the fact that the Republic's primary concern was the loss of Protobranch's resources and not its inhabitants. Around 82 BBY, a twenty year old Count Noble attended the funeral of his mother, Anya, on Serenno. It was here that his father Gora physically and verbally assaulted him, referring to his son as a "freak." Shortly afterward, Count Noble joined Sifo-Dyas and his master Kostana on a mission to track down a relic on Asusto. However, the pair were led into a trap by the Presagers of Hakotei who tricked them into following a supposed trail of Sith artifacts from Karazak. Count Noble was briefly captured by the Presagers to be used as part of a dark side ritual. It was during his brief captivity that he experienced a series of visions of his future, and he used Force lightning for the first time in order to kill his captors. After which Master Kostana and Sifo-Dyas taught him a cleansing ritual involving arm wrappings that was designed to keep him centered in the force. Between 82 BBY and 78 BBY, Count Noble completed his training with Yoda and became a Jedi Knight and eventually Jedi Master, rising to be one of the greatest Jedi of his generation. A veteran of many galactic conflicts, known for his exceptional skills as a lightsaber duelist. He would take Rael Averross as his Padawan, training him for 10 years and to Knighthood. Count Noble had also set aside his first blade and created his own curved-hilt lightsaber, which produced a blue blade. Count Noble used his lightsaber when he and Yoda demonstrated their lightsaber skills to a group of younglings, amongst them the Togorian Jak'zin. Furthermore, Count Noble was the main lightsaber instructor for Thranta Clan. Count Noble also rendered aid to Mother Talzin of the Nightsisters, who were based on the world of Dathomir, giving her a lock of his hair. In 68 BBY, Count Noble having finished training Averross by this point, would take a 12-year-old Qui-Gon Jinn as his second Padawan. On the evening of Qui-Gon being assigned to him, Jinn presented himself to his new Master in Count Noble's quarters, Count Noble observed that Jinn was frightened. After a moment of silence, and pressing him, Jinn confessed that he was frightened. He asked his apprentice why and after looking into himself through the fear, Jinn answered that he was not afraid of Count Noble, but of not becoming a Jedi, that he was afraid of failing and of not being worthy. Count Noble then summarized it as Jinn being afraid of himself, of a future not being the one he wanted. Jinn confirmed it, fearing that Count Noble will reject him for his apparent cowardice. Count Noble instead said that it was very wise, surprising Jinn. Smiling, he would explain that most Padawans would deny their fear, and even if they admitted it, they would not have Jinn's self-knowledge. He then further praised Jinn for his honesty, insight, and intelligence. To help Jinn understand the Jedi Temple more completely, Count Noble decided to take him throughout most of the Temple, including the Padawans' sparring dojo, and the one for full Jedi Knights, and the Great Assembly Room. Their last stop was the Jedi Archives, where they examined holocrons of various eras, not to study them, but simply for Jinn to learn his way around. While doing so, a particularly old holocron, more ancient and of a different shape than the rest, caught Jinn's eye. When he questioned his Master about it, he was shocked by the expression on Count Noble's face, almost as if he considered it an enemy. Count Noble answered that it was a holocron of Jedi prophecies. Jinn asked if there were Jedi prophets, to which Count Noble replied not any longer. He explained to Jinn that the mystics sought undue knowledge of the future which led them down dangerous paths. Those drawn too deeply into them were often tempted by the dark side. Count Noble then finished by saying that is why the Jedi study prophecy no longer, then turned to leave, which meant Jinn had to follow. Jinn then asked Count Noble if just wanting to know the future can lead to the dark side. Count Noble simply replied that it takes more than that. After training Qui-Gon for several months the Council sent him with his apprentice to Shurrupak to participate in a battle on its surface, which was Qui-Gon's very first. When they landed on the surface the encountered his first apprentice, Rael Averross, whom Count Noble introduced to his new apprentice. Eventually, a strike team, including Count Noble and Jinn, was assembled and sent to find notorious Falleen Bounty hunter Shenda Mol. They tracked her to the planet Numidian Prime where she had a stronghold and a handful of followers. After her followers were rounded up, it was left to Count Noble and Jinn to bring Mol in. Whilst searching for her hideout, Jinn was captured by Mol, but before she could kill him, he was saved by Count Noble who struck her with Force lightning. Jinn later told Rael Averross what Count Noble had done, but he was unconcerned. On a mission to rescue the abducted son of Senator Dagonet, one of the Republic's longest serving members, Count Noble and Jinn traveled to the Senator's home planet. To the stoic Jedi master and young Padawan's surprise, the planet's surface was little more than a wasteland which had been completely stripped of its natural resources and ravaged by over-industrialization. The two Jedi headed for a barren village in the distance. As they walked through the village, not a single resident dared step outside of their homes nor answer Qui-Gon's questions, which prompted them to enter the local inn. Fearless and keeping his unperplexed Jedi manner, Count Noble immediately asked for the abducted child of the Senator twice. One of the villagers questioned why she should tell them, to which Count Noble responded by producing his lightsaber. Once the villagers realized that Count Noble and Qui-Gon were Jedi, Count Noble stated their intention to resolve the situation and Qui-Gon assured the villagers that they were not acting on behalf of the Senator, which prompted the villager to ask how much they knew of the Senator. She explained that the village's desolate surroundings were proof that the Senator, who might have had good intentions at the beginning, had begun to neglect his people. Qui-Gon asked the villager why the people did not simply elect a new Senator, to which she replied that things were not so easy. She then agreed to show the Jedi where the Senator's son was located. At this point, Qui-Gon and Count Noble were surprised to discover that virtually every visitor present at the inn had been involved in the kidnapping. Escorted to a barn, the Jedi found the Senator's son restrained and surrounded by a droid and armed villagers. Count Noble asked if the boy had been harmed, and having been assured that he had not, asked what the boy knew of the villagers' living conditions. The boy did not blame them for kidnapping him as he sympathized with their circumstance. At that point a villager entered and informed the group that Senator Dagonet had arrived with dozens of armed soldiers. The villagers immediately accused the Jedi of leading them into a trap, but Count Noble calmed them by stating that their investigation was unknown to the Senator. Outside, Jedi and kidnappers watched as the Senator handed bread to the villager who had given up his son's location. One of the kidnappers remarked that many in the village would have done the same. Senator Dagonet ordered Count Noble and Qui-Gon to apprehend the villagers and release his son at once. Placing himself between the Senator and his people, Count Noble tried to calm the escalating tension by stating that their investigation was incomplete. The prideful Senator demanded his son's release, to which Count Noble responded that the young man was in no immediate danger and that further investigation was needed. Unwilling to delay any longer, the Senator ordered his men to prepare to attack the villagers, which caused the villagers to raise their own weapons. The Senator then gave the Jedi one more chance to step aside, but Count Noble refused. Dagonet claimed that the Jedi were supposed to serve him, but Count Noble corrected him and stated that the Jedi served the people of the Republic, not its leaders. His patience exhausted, the frustrated Senator commanded his soldiers to aim and be ready to open fire. In an effort to protect the villagers, the two Jedi ignited their lightsabers. A firefight erupted, and the precise shots of the soldiers began to overwhelm the kidnappers while the Jedi could only defend themselves and watch the ensuing massacre. After finishing off most of the villagers, Senator Dagonet stopped his soldiers. Count Noble, finding himself surrounded by citizens of the Republic who had been killed by their own leader, felt a sense of righteous anger which led him to tap into the dark side of the Force. As the Senator proclaimed that he would not be deterred by anyone, he was stopped mid-sentence as his throat began to constrict from Count Noble's sudden Force choke. Alarmed, Qui-Gon tried to stop his master, but Count Noble Force pushed him back into the door of the barn and continued to torture the arrogant Senator. The remaining soldiers were unable to resist the Jedi Master as he approached and stood in front of the struggling Senator, who had collapsed on the ground as he struggled to breath. Meanwhile, Qui-Gon, sensing only one opportunity to save the Senator's life, rushed back into the barn and freed his son. Count Noble, who had given in completely to the Dark Side in his desire to eradicate corruption, would have killed the defenseless Senator, but the Senator's son rushed forward and begged the Jedi to stop. As Qui-Gon told Count Noble it was over, Count Noble finally regained his composure and let go of Senator Dagonet. In the aftermath, the Senator left the planet with his son, who promised to make things right for his people. The villagers nodded in gratitude for the Jedi's efforts as they started to rebuild their village. Count Noble proclaimed his doubts that anything would change as a result of this ordeal, which made his Padawan question if that was his master's motivation to take action. Count Noble congratulated Qui-Gon's success in saving so many lives. His Padawan stated it was just a matter on focusing on the moment, which made Count Noble warmly acknowledge him as a much wiser man than himself as they walked to their ship. Sometime between 50 BBY and 42 BBY, Count Noble and fellow Jedi Master Mace Windu were given instructions to return the body of Master Katri, who had been killed in an ambush on Raxus Secundus, to the Jedi temple so she could have a proper burial. Count Noble was suspicious of the circumstances surrounding Katri's death, as no reason behind it, nor the identity of her murderers, was known. Furthermore, since the Raxus Senator, Larik had been present during the ambush, Count Noble wondered how he had survived when Katri, a fully-trained Jedi Master, had not. Because of his suspicions, Count Noble believed they needed to do more to honor Katri and investigate her death, but Windu was firm in his beliefs that the rules were there for a reason. The pair eventually touched down on Raxus Secundus, where they met with Senator Larik, who said he was there with Katri at the time of her death. Count Noble asked Larik to explain what happened, but the senator acted cagey and Count Noble noticed elements of his story didn't line up. Windu shared this belief and concern and wanted to take the information to the Jedi Council. Count Noble, however, wanted to follow the lead himself. They all headed off together to meet an informant at the place where Katri and Larik were supposedly ambushed, following Count Noble's plan. Examining the crime scene, the Count Noble and Windu deduced there were more than one attacker, but also noticed that there were no blaster marks on the Senator's ship. Suspecting that the senator might've had something to do with Katri's death, Count Noble ignited his lightsaber and scathingly demanded the truth. Terrified, Larik immediately turned and admitted that the guards killed Katri, but he was shot dead instantly for uttering the truth. Count Noble and Windu were also attacked by the guards, but they got the better of the men and their droids, defeated them. When they got the final man, Semage, down on his knees, he admitted that they killed Katri because the group he was operating within had learned Larik was using his Senate seat to become rich at the expense of their planet, industrializing it and selling it off piece by piece. Semage explained to Count Noble and Windu that the reason they kept Larik alive was to make him enact their own rules at the next Senate hearing meeting to reverse the damage done. When Windu questioned why Semage did not inform Katri of Larik's corruption, Semage insisted that though the Jedi claimed to bring peace, they were really only at the whim of the Senate, and only kept law and order for the rich. The pair eventually put Semage in lockup, but Count Noble understood how he felt and decided to go to his cell to meet him, telling him that while he did not condone his methods, he believed they had a right to protect their planet. Count Noble also told him to make sure his people continued to evolve and did not lose heart, telling him that it was the only way to ensure victory. Having solved Katri's murder, Count Noble and Windu brought her body back to the Jedi temple, where she was honored and cremated in a ceremony. After the funeral, Count Noble approached Windu to ask if he had been offered Master Katri's council seat, as rumors claimed that he had. When Windu confirmed that it was the case, a suspicious Count Noble questioned if Windu was aware Katri's position was open before they left for Raxus. Insisting that he had no idea about it before taking the case, Windu explained that he believed he had been given the seat over Count Noble because Count Noble did not stick to the mission and acted in a way that led to a senator's death. Nevertheless, Windu told Count Noble that he would speak to the Council on his behalf. Count Noble was more resentful than grateful but thanked him nonetheless. Shortly before Qui-Gon's trials between 49 BBY and 44 BBY, the pair were invited by council member Jor Aerith to join her in representing the Jedi at the annual Coruscant Dragonfire Air Rally in hopes of making a good impression on the Candovant ambassador who had invited her. Count Noble and Master Yula Braylon expressed frustration at the Council's obsession with politics, but Aerith pointed out Count Noble's charisma made him a natural conversationalist, for which she was not. Count Noble agreed to attend and took the opportunity to teach his apprentice some Candovant customs, but while he was there, he ran into his brother Ramil who was participating in the race. Count Noble questioned why he as the heir to the Serrenian throne was racing, but the older man dismissed him. While Ramil did very well in the race, it quickly became apparent his airspeeder was sabotaged and it crashed. Count Noble and his apprentice discreetly went to see what had happened, and while there they discovered the Investigator was trying to cover up the incident. Following the man, they found he was working for a Jenet crime boss named Cenevax. Ignoring a message from Aerith asking them to return to the races, they chose to confront and captured the criminal, and while questioning her they realized that she was privy to Council communications, as Cenevax made clear she knew they that had been recalled and were disobeying order by being there. With this information, Count Noble deduced that she had a spy on the Council. Calling the Temple Guard, Count Noble escorted Cenevax to the Council Chamber where he made his accusation, the Council was disturbed by this but through the Force he sensed Yula Braylon's guilt. Igniting his lightsaber, he called her out, and in return she ignited hers and asked Count Noble if he intended to kill her. Relenting, he stated he simply wanted justice and placed her under arrest. Further investigation revealed that Cenevax had been blackmailing her with the fact that Arath Tarrex was in fact her son. Count Noble and Qui Gon confronted and exposed Tarrex, who was then taken into custody for his actions and also for having sold out his mother's influence to criminals. Braylon's actions caused her to be removed from the council. When it was done, Count Noble inquired into what would happen to Cenevax and Yoda informed him she would be taken to the Citadel on Lola Sayu. Count Noble was dismayed at the prospect of the Jedi taking the law into their own hands, as well as Master Braylon's mistrust of the Jedi Order which brought her into that situation in the first place. His faith in the order was shaken once again. Count Noble was then offered a seat on the Council, which he accepted, as he felt change needed to come to the order from within. Eventually, Qui-Gon graduated to knighthood and went on to become a Master himself. He later took a Padawan: Obi-Wan Kenobi. Count Noble maintained some contact with Jinn, who spoke very highly about his apprentice Kenobi to his former master. At some stage, Count Noble took on another pupil. She later fell to the dark side and was killed for becoming an embarrassment. She created two red-bladed lightsabers that Count Noble held on to after his death. Over time, Count Noble became disillusioned with the Republic due to its corruption and believed that the Jedi Order had become too connected to the government. At some point in 42 BBY, Averross introduced Count Noble to the Naboo senator Sheev Palpatine, who was secretly the Sith Lord Darth Sidious, on Coruscant after Count Noble delivered an address to the Galactic Senate. He then returned to his ancestral home of Serenno with Master Kostana and Sifo-Dyas after his sister Jenza pleaded for his help. Count Noble became embroiled in the invasion of Serenno, caused by his brother, Count Ramil, who had hired Abyssin mercenaries to attack the planet to turn its people against the Republic. In the ensuring battle, Count Noble killed Ramil. Reclaiming the title of Count of Serenno after killing his brother, Count Noble also took possession of his family fortune, one of the largest in the galaxy. Believing his people needed him, Count Noble decided he needed to leave the Jedi to lead Serenno, feeling it was his responsibility after all his brother had done. Furthermore, the people of the planet had found new resources, a deposit of sacanium, which they could produce themselves. The Republic offered to help with the resources despite having previously decided the Abyssin crisis was an internal affair. Count Noble rejected the Republic's aid, deciding the recovery of Serenno would also be an internal matter as well. Contacting Yoda, Count Noble explained his choices to his mentor and remained steadfast in his choice to leave. Although it saddened them, Yoda promised Count Noble that choice was respected by the Jedi Council. When Count Noble stated he would turn over his lightsaber, Yoda told him to keep the blade; his mentor explained that being a Jedi was more than a title, so he was to keep the weapon. After saying goodbye to Yoda, the count said goodbye to his old friend Sifo-Dyas, promising that they would see each other again. At the age of 60, Count Noble had left the order. Count Noble then became one of the Lost Twenty. Despite his newfound wealth and power, however, Count Noble all but disappeared from public life after his resignation. Due to the Count spending most time away from the eye of the public, most believed that he had gone into a sort of self-imposed exile with the intention of founding an offshoot of the Jedi Order. Count Noble was, however, still welcome within the Temple on Coruscant due to his past as a Jedi. As such, he often returned to it and had meetings with the Council. One day in 41 BBY, he returned for one such meeting while the Council was feuding with Jinn. However, at some point during this period, Count Noble was approached by Darth Sidious, who saw the former Jedi as a potential leader for a Separatist movement against the Republic. Using the Count's frustration with the Republic and the Jedi Order, the Dark Lord would start turning Count Noble to the dark side. Ultimately vowing to wipe away the corruption within the organizations he had once served, Count Noble shared his misgivings with Sidious. While Sidious already had a Sith apprentice in Darth Maul, he secretly recruited Count Noble to his cause, In 40 BBY, Count Noble shared with his former Padawan Rael Averross that he had discovered a great power that he wished to share with Averross. However, Averross rebuffed Count Noble's offer and before cutting the transmission, informing his former master that he had chosen the light and was not interested in what Count Noble had to offer him. Nonetheless, over Count Noble's many visits to the temple, Yoda failed to sense the growing darkness in his former pupil. After accepting Sidious' offer, Count Noble helped his new ally to implement much of the groundwork necessary to begin the Clone Wars, even using his access to the Jedi Temple to further the Sith Grand Plan. The most important project that he oversaw during that time was the creation of a clone army intended for use by the Republic during the planned war. It was unknown how the Sith had learned about the army, but Count Noble would later claim his old friend Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas had willingly brought him into the fold to help establish it. Greatly troubled by the Republic's tumultuous political situation and the Jedi Council's apparent complacency, Dyas ordered the clone army from the Kaminoans, which Dyas hoped to hold in reserve in case of civil war. By the year 33 BBY, Count Noble discovered the Kaleesh warlord Grievous, formerly known as Qymaen jai Sheelal, who had been shown to be a brilliant military leader with a remarkable reputation as a successful warlord on his homeworld of Kalee. Count Noble and Sidious had seen Grievous's potential when he led his people in a war against their planetary neighbors, the Yam'rii, a greedy, technologically-advanced insectoid species from the planet Huk in the same system as Kalee. When the Kaleesh armies forced the Yam'rii from their home, the insects took a surprising move and sought assistance from the Galactic Republic, to which it and the Jedi responded by joining the side of the Yam'rii against the invaders. The Kaleesh were condemned and hit with embargoes and fines, with hundreds of thousands of Kaleesh dying of starvation. Grievous's hatred for the Republic and the Jedi intensified, which prompted him to ally with the InterGalactic Clan. Grievous became an enforcer and was phenomenally successful as one of the IGBC's most important resources. With his exploits having already piqued the interest of both Count Noble and Sidious, they had big plans for him and wanted to test their experiments with technologically advanced beings. Grievous willingly took the Sith up on their offer of cybernetic enhancements. However, Grievous' shuttle was later gravely sabotaged, nearly killing him and destroying the majority of what remained of his original body. After that gruesome shuttle crash that left him fatally injured and regained consciousness in a bacta tank, Grievous discovered that he had been nearly totally gutted and mutilated by surgical FX droids, and Count Noble offered the Kaleesh warrior life-saving surgery. The Count claimed that a Jedi was responsible for the sabotage, which fueled Grievous to accept reconstruction and return to military service, the General harbored a deep and fierce hatred of the Jedi, the Republic, and the Yam'rii; however, in truth, Count Noble was directly responsible for Grievous' injuries and subsequent transformation. Under Count Noble's direction, Separatist cybernetic experts and Geonosian biotechs nearly completely reconstructed Grievous. Count Noble initially gave the general a weapon that belonged to a long-dead friend, a former Jedi, and had him spend hours upon hours studying holovids of Jedi in battle and reading all the training manuals he could furnish him with. Count Noble continued to instruct Grievous in lightsaber combat, making him even more lethal. Grievous then modified and improved his cybernetic body throughout time and was soon unleashed on the galaxy. In 32 BBY, Count Noble visited the Jedi Temple and secretly entered the Jedi Archives, where he used Sifo Dyas' authorization to erase data on the existence of the planet Kamino, where the clone army Dyas had ordered was being developed. After doing so, he noticed commotion between the Jedi within the archives and asked Jedi archivist Jocasta Nu about it, who informed him that his former Padawan Qui-Gon Jinn had encountered with an alleged Sith Lord on the Outer Rim planet Tatooine. Qui-Gon and his Padawan, Obi-Wan Kenobi, had traveled to the Mid Rim planet Naboo in an attempt to negotiate with Viceroy of the Trade Federation Nute Gunray to relinquish his blockade on the planet. Gunray, however, under orders from Sidious—who had engineered the conflict to get himself elected Supreme Chancellor—ordered for the two Jedi to be killed, though their attempts failed and the two Jedi managed to escape Naboo alongside its queen, Padmé Amidala. On their way to Coruscant, the crew made a stop at Tatooine, where they encountered Maul, whom they managed to evade. Upon hearing that, Count Noble commented to her that Jinn had an active imagination, which Nu reminded Count Noble he once had. Remarking that such a quality was valued a lot less in the Jedi Temple, Count Noble left the Archives and found his way to Jinn, who was walking through the Temple halls with Master Yaddle, to ask him about the supposed Sith Lord he had encountered. Count Noble guessed correctly that the Jedi Council had not wanted to believe that conclusion, adding that he had been warning them about the coming darkness for years and they had never taken him seriously. Yaddle, a council member, spoke up and insisted that, though she did not doubt his claim, they had found no reason to cause undue alarm, adding that the advice and decision of the Council was to be cautious until they knew more. While neither Jinn nor Yaddle were aware of Count Noble's firsthand knowledge, the former Jedi warned them, especially Jinn, to act with caution when encountering a Sith, reminding his former Padawan that he would no longer be there to protect him. Jinn assured him that Kenobi, whom Count Noble had never met but wanted to due to Jinn's high praise of the young man, looked out for him. After Jinn left, Yaddle noticed Count Noble appeared conflicted, leading the two to muse about how quickly their students grew up before Count Noble left. Not long after, Qui-Gon, Kenobi, and Queen Amidala returned to Naboo and repelled the Federation Invasion, though Maul killed Qui-Gon in the process. Meanwhile, Count Noble needed to make certain that Sifo-Dyas would remain silent about the clone army. Acting under the name "Tyranus," he betrayed his friend by contacting Lom Pyke of the Pyke Syndicate shortly after the Battle of Naboo and instructing him to murder Sifo-Dyas by way of shooting down his shuttle during a mission. After hearing the news of Jinn's death, Count Noble visited the Great Tree in the Jedi Temple on Coruscant once again to reflect on his death, as he had taken a young Jinn to the tree often. He recounted this to Master Yaddle, who had approached him there and Yaddle informed him that Jinn's funeral was to be held on Naboo and that the council would be traveling to attend, but Count Noble informed her that he would not be attending, as he believed his presence would not be enjoyed or welcome. She asked if he blamed the council for Jinn's death, but Count Noble only said that he had become one with the Force and it was thus time to let him go. Yaddle asked if he was capable of doing this, but Count Noble said he had no other choice. Count Noble then left and traveled to his and Sidious' meeting place in The Works industrial zone on the planet to confront Sidious, furious that his ally's machinations had resulted in the death of his former apprentice. Confronting the Sith Lord, Count Noble accused Sidious of making him betray everything and everyone he had known. Sidious claimed that all of Count Noble's actions had been in the service of a greater good and that his betrayal had been a necessary evil. Unbeknownst to Count Noble, Yaddle had followed him in secret; after overhearing his conversation with Sidious, she confronted them and urged Count Noble to surrender to her and help her defeat Sidious. Count Noble hesitated initially but then, Sidious reminded Count Noble of how the Jedi blindly served the corrupt Galactic Senate, and on Sidious' orders, engaged Yaddle in a lightsaber duel as a final test of loyalty. In spite of Yaddle's great efforts, Count Noble- with his nearly unrivaled dueling prowess- quickly began to overwhelm her. Managing to hide behind Sidious' ship, Yaddle called out to Count Noble, admitting that the Jedi Council had been wrong and informing him that as a result, she had chosen to step down from the body. Her last attempt at persuading Count Noble failed, however. After another short exchange of blows, Yaddle retreated to the doorway leading back to her ship. As Count Noble mocked her for "running back to the Council", Yaddle retorted he had run straight into the arms of evil. Angered, Count Noble attacked Yaddle with greater ferocity and knocked her into the frame of the large doorway, temporarily stunning the smaller Jedi Master. Count Noble wasted no time and flipped the lever controlling the door, which came crashing down onto his former friend. Collapsing in anguish over what he had just done, Count Noble was reassured by Sidious, who congratulated his new apprentice. To their shock, Yaddle suddenly reappeared, lifting the doorway off of herself in one final display of her immense Force power, which sapped her of remaining energy. Lying defenseless and exhausted at Count Noble's feet, Yaddle stated that many would suffer under Count Noble's scheme for galactic order. Count Noble replied sarcastically that he would give Yaddle peace, then impaled her with his lightsaber, killing her instantly. Sidious then formally anointed Count Noble as his new Sith apprentice and gave him the name Count Noble, the same name Count Noble had been using as his cover for some time. Count Noble would come to regard it as a formidable name worthy of his power. Count Noble was given Sifo-Dyas' body by the Pykes. Count Noble took Dyas' body to the planet Felucia, which was in the midst of a conflict the Jedi had ordered Dyas to stop. Once there, Count Noble made it seem like the two of them had been dispatched together to solve the crisis. Count Noble made it seem like Dyas died in the local conflict, and the body was burned by the native Felucians. However, unbeknownst to Count Noble, another person had been in Dyas' shuttle; the Pykes had captured Valorum's aide, Silman, and imprisoned him as insurance against possible betrayal by Count Noble. On one of the moons of Bogden, Count Noble—under his alias Tyranus—recruited the bounty hunter Jango Fett as the template for the Clone Army. Along with a considerable salary, Count Noble agreed to pay Fett with an unaltered clone for himself. Sifo-Dyas had bio-chips he wanted installed in the brain of each clone, as a safeguard against rogue Jedi. To ensure the destruction of the Jedi at the right time, Sidious and Count Noble retooled the chips in order to trigger a protocol called Order 66 that would forcibly brainwash the clones into murdering their Jedi superiors. Posing as a Jedi, Tyranus deceived the Kaminoans, most notably Prime Minister Lama Su and Chief Medical Scientist Nala Se, into believing Sifo Dyas' intention, while also telling them to keep this a secret. After hiring Fett, Count Noble moved onto another phase of the Sith plan by beginning to bring together galactic-level businesses, as well as planets and peoples tired of the Galactic Republic, to create an alliance of Separatists. He did, also, lead the Independent Movement for Self-Determination, which allowed him to tour universities and give lectures. In 26 BBY, Count Noble, at the behest of Sidious, went to Sullust to discuss an alliance between the SoroSuub Corporation and himself. In truth, Count Noble was to seek out the Kaldana Syndicate. After a tour of one of Sullust's cities, Count Noble met newly knighted Jedi Jak'zin and was invited to dinner with him and Representative Kap Klyp. Count Noble informed Sidious of this complication who told him to find out why Jak'zin was there. At dinner, Count Noble denied rumors that he was creating another order of force users and assured Jak'zin that he was looking after his family's business interest on Serenno. Following dinner, Count Noble followed Jak'zin and learned about the mission of learning about the Kaldana Syndicate. Count Noble agreed to help Jak'zin on his mission. The two made their way into the syndicate's base. There, Count Noble and Jak'zin discovered that the syndicate was smuggling weapons and were surrounded by the syndicate's gang. Count Noble and Jak'zin fought the gangsters. After defeating the gangsters, Count Noble killed Jak'zin and then spoke with the surviving gangsters. After making a deal with the syndicate, Count Noble left Sullust. While Count Noble was involved in Grievous's construction as a cyborg and trained him in lightsaber combat, he also needed his own acolyte; an apprentice of sorts. Grievous was already allied with other Confederacy of Independent Systems members. Impressed by how she had conquered the planet Rattatak, Count Count Noble recruited fallen Dathomirian Jedi Asajj Ventress to act as his assassin and Sith apprentice. After Ventress found her, Count Noble also murdered his sister Jenza, ignoring her pleas to return to the light. Several years after his resignation from the Jedi Order and the death of his former apprentice, Qui-Gon Jinn, Count Noble re-entered the public eye in a spectacular fashion, commandeering a Republic HoloNet station in the Raxus system and delivering a rousing speech in which he thoroughly lambasted the corruption and shortcomings of the Republic. In a galaxy in which many Outer and Mid Rim systems were chafing under the ineffectual and corrupt bureaucracy of the Republic, Count Noble's speech set the stage for the Separatist movement. Furthermore, he began meddling in the affairs of many planets, supporting anti-Republic coups on worlds such as Ryloth and interfering in the political processes of Kashyyyk and Onderon, among others. He also began to publicly rally systems and corporations to his cause to become the Confederacy of Independent Systems, and publicly spurned every opportunity to negotiate with Palpatine. At some point after the creation of the CIS, Count Noble piloted his personal Sith Infiltrator to Dathomir. Count Noble personally went to the planet Geonosis to renew the contract between Baktoid Armor Workshop and the Geonosians. One of Count Noble's first headquarters was established in the Tion Hegemony. While the sector was largely controlled by the House of Tion, Count Noble's presence ensured it became a strong supporter of the CIS. During the time leading up to the Clone Wars, Count Noble also met several times the governor of Eriadu, Wilhuff Tarkin, in an attempt to convince him to join the Separatist movement. He alluded to the governor that war was inevitable, and that he desired the support of the powerful Outer Rim world for his cause. In truth however, these meetings had been orchestrated by Palpatine to test Tarkin's loyalties, and Tarkin remained firm in this commitment to the Republic. Count Noble also promised Trade Federation Viceroy Gunray that he would assassinate Senator Amidala, whom Gunray despised, if he signed Count Noble's treaty. Gunray accepted the offer; Count Noble thus dispatched Jango Fett to carry out Amidala's assassination. Despite the failure of Fett's mission, Count Noble was able to have the Trade Federation, the Banking Clan, the Techno Union, the Commerce Guild, and the Corporate Alliance all sign his treaty on Geonosis, formalizing the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Count Noble assured them that the Jedi and the Republic would be overwhelmed by their combined forces. The Separatists' assassination attempts on Amidala prompted an investigation by Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi, who tracked Fett to Geonosis. There, Count Noble was meeting with leaders of the commerce guilds, and listened as they pledged their assets to his Confederacy. Kenobi overheard their discussion but was captured by droidekas while transmitting his findings back to the Republic. Count Noble visited Kenobi in his prison cell, feigning shock at the Jedi's capture and inquiring as to his presence on Geonosis. Denying involvement with the bounty hunters, Count Noble instead spoke of his former apprentice, Qui-Gon, suggesting that Jinn would have joined Count Noble's movement had he learned the truth that the Sith were in control of the Senate. Though Obi-Wan refused to believe Count Noble's words, just as Count Noble predicted he would, the Count attempted to recruit him in apparent opposition to Darth Sidious, and left Kenobi to his fate when he rejected the offer. Count Noble oversaw the attempted execution of Amidala, Kenobi, and Skywalker in the Petranaki Arena, but proceedings were forestalled when Master Windu and his Jedi assault team arrived to rescue the condemned trio. Windu was soon outnumbered by battle droids, and Count Noble watched as the Jedi were surrounded on the arena floor. He offered to spare their lives if they surrendered, but Windu refused. In a regretful tone, Count Noble gave the order to terminate them, but the survivors were spared by Yoda's arrival with the clone army from Kamino. As war broke out across Geonosis, Count Noble left for the Geonosian Command Center to oversee the growing Battle of Geonosis. As he arrived, Count Noble claimed he had no idea how the Republic had gained its army and helped command the defense, assuring Poggle that his Master would not let the Republic get away with the invasion, but eventually chose to retreat. Before leaving, Count Noble was given the designs to the ultimate weapon by Archduke Poggle the Lesser, assuring him that the designs would be safe with his Master. Escaping on his speeder with an escort of two Geonosian fighters and his escape path covered by Sev'rance Tann and another Dark Acolyte, Count Noble made for his secret hangar but was pursued by Kenobi and Skywalker's gunship. As Count Noble prepared to leave, he was confronted by Kenobi and Skywalker. He subdued Skywalker with Force lightning and fought Kenobi, overpowering and wounding him in the shoulder and leg. As Count Noble prepared to make his killing move, Skywalker leapt into the battle. The two fought until Count Noble cut off Skywalker's right arm, but Yoda arrived to save his allies. Count Noble, eager to defeat his old master, engaged in a clash of the Force and lightsabers alike with him. The fighting was fierce but brief and cut short when Count Noble brought down a pillar over Kenobi and Skywalker, forcing Yoda to break off his attack to save them. Count Noble fled in his solar sailer as his forces retreated into space. Tyranus rendezvoused with Sidious, who was very impressed, informing him that the war had begun as planned. Count Noble and his Master recruited the cyborg General Grievous to lead the droid army. Grievous was trained by Count Noble in the Jedi arts, using lightsabers taken from his Jedi kills. When the Bryx sector seceded, Count Noble placed General Horn Ambigene on Pzandias. He also named Ambigene the Commander of Organic Training. Later, Count Noble commanded his droid army to seize control of the major hyperspace routes following Geonosis, separating the Republic from the majority of its army. Intending to bring the Hutt Clan into the Confederacy, Count Noble made a deal with Ziro, uncle of Jabba the Hutt, to have Jabba's son, Rotta, kidnapped and the act blamed on the Jedi. Count Noble sent Ventress in her Trident-class assault ship, the Trident, to Tatooine to carry out the kidnapping. She took Rotta to the abandoned monastery on Teth with two battalions of battle droids, where she was contacted by Count Noble and then by Lord Sidious, who assured them that the Jedi would be provoked into war with Hutts as well as the Separatists. Count Noble ventured to Tatooine and spoke with Jabba, claiming that the Jedi were behind his son's kidnapping, and had Ventress and her spy droid, 4-A7, provide "evidence" that Skywalker and his apprentice were responsible. Though he assured the Hutt his droid army was mounting a rescue, Count Noble was informed by Ventress that Skywalker had eluded her and was escaping with Rotta. After her defeat, Count Noble had Ventress lie that Skywalker had killed the Huttlet. Jabba, believing Count Noble, allowed him to send battle droids to deal with Skywalker personally. After his MagnaGuards shot Skywalker down onto Tatooine, Count Noble went into the Dune Sea. He contacted Ziro, informing him that Jabba believed his story, and assured him that he would be master of the Hutt Clans. Count Noble also had Ziro take Senator Amidala prisoner when she learned of Ziro's deal. Count Noble confronted Skywalker ordering the Jedi to surrender Rotta to him or die, dueling across the dunes, until Count Noble realize the Huttlet was with Skywalker's apprentice, Ahsoka Tano. However, he anticipated this and had MagnaGuards wait for her, taunting Skywalker with a hologram of Tano's desperate fight. Skywalker fled in pursuit, taking Count Noble's speeder, but the Dark Lord simply laughed knowing Skywalker would fail. However, after Jabba learned the truth of his uncle's deal, Count Noble left Tatooine and informed Lord Sidious of his failure. Sidious told him to allow the Jedi their victory, knowing that the engines had turned in their favor according with Sidious' master plan as Jabba allowed the Republic to use the Hutt Cartel hyperspace lanes.. At the start of the Separatist occupation of Ryloth, Count Noble was informed by TA1313 that the Jedi were sending Senator Bail Organa of Alderaan to Toydaria to establish supply lines to the Republic garrison and the Twi'lek people. Count Noble contacted Senator Lott Dod of the Trade Federation to prevent the Republic from doing so. Count Noble learned that King Katuunko was considering joining the Republic and was going to speak with his former master Yoda on the neutral moon, Rugosa. He sent his apprentice, Ventress, to convince him to join the Separatists. Ventress was able to make a deal with Katuunko and Yoda; If Yoda and his three troopers defeated her droid battalion, the Toydarians would be allowed to join the Republic, but if her droids captured Yoda, Katuunko would join the Separatists. Count Noble approved of her deal, believing that Yoda made a mistake in venturing far from Coruscant. However, Yoda was able to defeat her droids, and Katuunko told Count Noble that he would be joining the Republic upon seeing Ventress' treachery. Count Noble urged him to reconsider, but to no avail, and ordered Ventress to kill the king. However, Yoda prevented the murder, and Count Noble watched as Ventress made her escape, telling Yoda that his old master was fortunate he was not there in person. Count Noble was disappointed in his assassin and developed a grudge against Katuunko in light of the mission's failure. Count Noble joined General Grievous aboard the heavy cruiser Malevolence in the Abregado system. When a fleet of Republic cruisers entered the system, Count Noble ordered Grievous to jam their communications and to use the cruiser's secret weapon, the ion cannon, to disable and destroy the fleet. Count Noble sent out hunters to make sure there were no survivors, though he later learned that a group of survivors had destroyed the pod hunters. As Count Noble, Grievous, and the Malevolence searched for the survivors, Skywalker arrived and found them first. Count Noble ordered Grievous to destroy the rescue ship, but the effort failed. After Grievous attacked a medical convoy near the Ryndellia system, Count Noble gave the droid general his next target: the Republic's Outer Rim Medical Center. En route to the target, Count Noble informed Grievous that the Republic had launched a strike team under Skywalker to attack the Malevolence, and warned him not to underestimate Skywalker. After the Malevolence's hyperdrive was disabled, Count Noble arranged for Senator Amidala to be captured while en route to negotiations with the Banking Clan, but the ploy failed and the Malevolence was destroyed. Count Noble attempted to contact Grievous for an update, but the general angrily cut communications while fleeing the scene of destruction. As the conflict entered a stalemate, Viceroy Gunray was captured by the Republic, so Sidious informed his apprentice of the dangers of allowing him to be interrogated by the Jedi. Though Tyranus planned to send Ventress to either free or silence Gunray, Sidious questioned the dark-sider's competence after previous failures. Count Noble gave Ventress her mission, but warned her that she would have to prove herself worthy of being his apprentice. He bribed Senate commando Faro Argyus into helping Ventress free Gunray, and the mission was ultimately a success. After Gunray's escape, Count Noble, frustrated with the ongoing stalemate, arranged a test for General Grievous. He laid a trap for Jedi Master Kit Fisto, his former apprentice Nahdar Vebb, and their clone troopers at Grievous's fortress in the Vassek system. He deactivated Grievous' MagnaGuards and offered an "alternative prize" to Fisto during his pursuit of Gunray. After Grievous' first confrontation with the Jedi and the death of his pet roggwart, Gor, Count Noble contacted him telling him that he arranged for this test. Grievous then cut communications with Count Noble to finish off the Jedi. Grievous later informed him of Fisto's escape, and the Count suggested there was room for improvement. Count Noble captured Skywalker and took him aboard his command ship. Skywalker was rescued by Kenobi and the two of them confronted Count Noble. Count Noble made his escape to his solar sailor as the Republic forces arrived. Count Noble was soon thereafter shot down by Skywalker and Kenobi and crash landed on Vanqor where he hid in a cave. He next caused a cave-in, forcing Skywalker to lose his lightsaber which Count Noble took, and then sealed the cave off. Count Noble found Weequay pirates at his solar sailor. Thereafter, Count Noble approached the pirate's captain, Hondo Ohnaka, who offered him passage to Florrum for a price. Count Noble agreed to pay him while secretly planning to kill all the pirates upon their arrival on Florrum due to not trusting them. However before he could, Count Noble's lightsabers were stolen from him by Hondo's monkey-lizard Pilf Mukmuk. Count Noble warned them that they were not dealing with a Jedi, but a Sith Lord. However, he was outnumbered and ransomed off to the Republic by the pirates. Kenobi and Skywalker checked to ensure the pirates had actually captured him. Count Noble warned the Jedi that the pirates were devious and that they would not allow them to leave. Count Noble was proven correct when he, Kenobi, and Skywalker were tied together. Thus, Count Noble was forced to work with the Jedi to escape before the Republic arrived. During their 2nd escape attempt, Count Noble was saved by Kenobi before they were captured by Hondo and his men. However, after Republic representative Jar Jar Binks and his escort disabled the power, Count Noble made his escape by choking a guard. Count Noble found Turk Falso and and Barb Mentir abandoning Hondo and heading to their shuttle. The Sith Lord choked Turk Falso with the Force, forcing him to kill Mentir with his own blaster before killing Falso as well. At that point, Count Noble stole their shuttle and made his escape as Anakin and Obi-Wan were rescued by Jar Jar and Stone. On his way back to his frigate, Count Noble created a holorecording chronicling these events, however he chose to delete it rather than share with Sidious due to not wanting his master to know how he got kidnapped. Count Noble observed General Lok Durd's test of his new weapon—the Defoliator—on the world Maridun. After the initial success of the weapon tested on grass and two battle droids, Count Noble asked to the general to test the weapon on living targets. Durd assured him that he would test it on the Lurmen colonists. During the initial start of the Republic's return to Ryloth, Count Noble assured Tambor that the Republic forces were spread thin in its sector and that it would be suicide for the Republic. After the Republic landed and were moving on the capital of Lessu, Count Noble was informed by TA-175 of Tambor's pitiful job in protecting the Separatist's investment on Ryloth. Though Tambor claimed that the tactical droid was exaggerating, Count Noble warned him that he was no match for Windu. Count Noble then ordered Tambor to evacuate with what valuables he had and to destroy what was left. Count Noble told Tambor that the charred ruins of Ryloth would demonstrate to the galaxy the cost of a Republic "victory." Count Noble then contacted Tambor again, shocked that he had not left yet. Count Noble then ordered him out before Windu and the Republic arrive. He then gave TA-175 orders to bomb the capital after they leave. After the Republic arrived and captured Tambor, Count Noble ordered TA-175 to bomb the capital. Count Noble secretly supported the Death Watch movement on Mandalore. Count Noble spoke with its leader, Governor Pre Vizsla of Concordia, about the Jedi Council's investigation on Mandalore. Count Noble assured him that if the Republic sends an occupation force to Mandalore, the people would rebel and join the Death Watch. Count Noble had Vizsla send one of his assassins to Coruscant to eliminate Duchess Satine Kryze from interfering with their plans. Unfortunately, the Duchess stopped their plans. Count Noble warned Vizsla that without his forces, Death Watch would only hold the planet for a day. Count Noble assured him that he had other ways of accomplishing their goals. Following these events, Count Noble betrayed the Death Watch. Vizsla was left with a lightsaber scar on his face as a "parting gift" from Count Noble but managed to escape, vowing vengeance on the Sith Lord. Count Noble endorsed a peace initiative being offered by the Separatist Senate. However, Count Noble had General Grievous carry out a mission to ensure that Lord Sidious' plans continue unhindered. Count Noble assured Republic senators Lott Dod, Gume Saam, and Nix Card that they would ensure that the banks would be deregulated and they would receive their profits. Count Noble then offered his assistance to Pantoran Chairman Papanoida when his daughters were kidnapped. Count Noble then attempted to coerce Pantora, a moon of Orto Plutonia to join the Separatists by sending the Trade Federation to blockade the planet. After the attack, Count Noble sent a message saying that the Republic had killed the very sponsor of the peace initiative, Mina Bonteri. In truth, Count Noble had sent his agents to kill Bonteri. Count Noble then sent bounty hunters Robonino and Chata Hyoki to intimidate Senators from voting against the military enhancement bill. Count Noble then sent them to eliminate Senator Amidala. Tyranus was then contacted by Lord Sidious about his assassin, Ventress, and how she was becoming powerful. Sidious believed that Tyranus was training his own apprentice and was planning to replace him. Tyranus assured Sidious that his loyalty was to him alone. To prove his loyalty, the Sith Lord was ordered to eliminate Ventress. Tyranus tried to convince Sidious not to do this, but he complied. Count Noble then contacted Ventress at Sullust, informing her that he recalled her reinforcements. Ventress implored Count Noble to help destroy the Jedi, but he told her that she was no longer his apprentice and that she would soon die. Count Noble then contacted the tactical droid, TJ-912, aboard its Destroyer and ordered it to destroy Ventress aboard the flagship. TJ-912 carried out Count Noble's orders and informed him that she was dead. Count Noble ordered TJ-912 to withdraw. Tyranus then informed Sidious that Ventress had been destroyed, proving his loyalty to his master. Count Noble then came under attack by Ventress and her fellow Nightsisters posing as Jedi at his palace on Serenno. Though his senses were dulled by their poison, Count Noble was able to fight them off with his Sith lightning. The attempt on his life failed but Count Noble never found out the identity of his attackers. Count Noble was then contacted by Mother Talzin, who was aware of the loss of his prized assassin, who was of one of her Nightsisters. She then offered Count Noble one male from her planet to replace her. Count Noble took her up on her offer. Count Noble then traveled to Dathomir to speak with Talzin. Count Noble proposed an alliance between his Separatists and her Nightsisters. Talzin refused his generous offer. Talzin then asked Count Noble if knew the Sith warrior, Darth Maul. Count Noble remembered that he was killed 10 years ago on Naboo by Kenobi. Talzin then offered one of her Nightbrothers from Maul's village, as his new assassin. Count Noble, with the "loss" of Ventress and the Jedi attacks, agreed to her offer and left. Count Noble was then given the Nightbrother, Savage Opress, by Talzin on Serenno. Count Noble was impressed by the Opress' sight and how Talzin described him as the fiercest of his kind, assuring him that Opress would serve Count Noble well. Count Noble then sent Opress on a mission to secure the outpost on Devaron from the Republic. Count Noble was then informed by Opress of his mission's success and returned to him on Serenno. Count Noble then branded Savage his apprentice, encouraging him by noting that they could defeat Sidious together and rule the galaxy. Count Noble then trained Savage in lightsaber combat and his dark side powers. Count Noble was a harsh taskmaster who tortured Opress with his Sith lightning. After Count Noble's first training session with Opress, he sent him on a mission to Toydaria. Count Noble told him to bring King Katuunko to him alive. However, Opress failed Count Noble when he killed Katuunko and brought him aboard his flagship. Count Noble then punished him with his Sith lightning. Ventress then revealed herself to be alive and Opress' true master. The two of them then fought Count Noble, who initially proved indomitable by the two of them. However, Opress, empowered by rage, suddenly attacked both Count Noble and Ventress- though they both pushed him back and then made their escape. Count Noble was then confronted by Ventress but defeated her with ease. Just as he was about to kill her, Count Noble was blinded and Ventress made her escape. Count Noble then ordered his battle droids to kill Opress, but they failed to stop him from escaping. Count Noble was informed of Jedi general Even Piell's capture and imprisonment in a Separatist prison called the Citadel on the planet Lola Sayu and figured out he had information on the Nexus Routes which could change the tide of the war. Because of this, Count Noble pressured the sadistic warden of the Citadel and Separatist operative, Osi Sobeck, to interrogate Piell and his men about the Nexus Routes. Later, a group of Jedi and clones led by Anakin, Ahsoka, and Obi-Wan infiltrated the Citadel frozen in carbonite, but their cover was blown when one of the clones accidentally triggered an electro-mine and was killed. Despite his best efforts, the Jedi evaded Sobeck's traps and successfully rescued Piell and his head naval officer Wilhuff Tarkin and many others. Count Noble was furious and contacted Sobeck and ordered him to recapture Piell and his naval officers and capture the rescue squad, but Sobeck assured him that everything was under control and ended the transmission and proceeded to prevent the Jedi from escaping with Piell by destroying a Separatist ship and killed a clone named Echo, ho sacrificed himself to destroy the droids, but the Jedi and the surviving clones and naval officers fled to the caves below to contact the Republic for assistance. At the same time, Count Noble attempted to contact Sobeck again, but Sobeck ignored him to cut off the Jedi's escape. Eventually, Count Noble was able to contact Sobeck, who informed the warden of the significance of the Jedi's capture, to which Sobeck swore to accomplish, but Count Noble reminded him that Sobeck's promises to capture the Jedi were the only things that were keeping him alive. Although Sobeck sent Anoobas to track the Jedi and successfully killed Piell, Sobck ultimately failed to stop the Jedi from escaping the Citadel with the Nexus Route information and was killed by Ahsoka and the Jedi, clones, and the naval officers escaped. During the Battle of Mon Cala, Count Count Noble supported the Quarren in their civil war against the Mon Calamari. The Mon Calamari King Yos Kolina had died but the Quarren led by Chieftain Nossor Ri contested his son Prince Lee-Char's claim to the throne. Count Noble dispatched Commander Riff Tamson as a Separatist observer to the Quarren on Mon Cala. Count Noble was assured that Chieftain Nossor Ri and his Quarren were with them. In return for supporting the Separatist cause, Count Noble promised Tamson that Mon Cala would be his to rule. Under Count Noble's orders, Mon Calamari captives from Mon Cala city were enslaved. After the Mon Calamari and Republic received Gungan reinforcements from Naboo, Count Noble sent Tamson reinforcements, but ordered him to keep them in reserve. Count Noble also ordered him to continue to hunt down Prince Lee-Char and reminded Nossor Ri that the Quarren had to support the war effort if they wanted Separatist support. Tamson also received Karkarodon enforcers from his homeworld of Karkaris to secure the Separatists hold on the planet. Despite Count Noble's best efforts, his plans to conquer Mon Cala collapsed after the Quarren switched sides after learning that Tamson planned to crown himself as the new ruler of Mon Cala. Together, the Quarren, Mon Calamari, Republic, Jedi, and Gungans managed to drive the Separatist from Mon Cala. Both the Trade Federation and the Separatist armies had longed to take control of Naboo ever since their humiliating defeat at the Battle of Naboo. This time, Count Count Noble led the plan, with General Grievous at his side. Count Noble long coveted the planet Naboo because of its connection to Palpatine as the Republic's leader. Count Noble then formed an alliance with Gungan priest, Rish Loo to provoke a war between the Naboo and the Gungans. Count Noble promised Rish Loo that he would most influential in his new order. However, Rish Loo's plans were exposed by Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker, Senator Amidala, and Representative Binks freed Boss Lyonie from his mind-control. Count Noble informed his master of General Grievous' capture by the Gungans. Count Noble agreed to capture Skywalker in order to trade him for Grievous. Count Noble had Rish Loo lure Skywalker to his lab. Once there, Count Noble killed Rish Loo for his foolishness. Count Noble and his MagnaGuards fought Skywalker, eventually subduing him. Count Noble then contacted Amidala, offering to exchange Skywalker for General Grievous. At first, Amidala refused, but agreed to it when Count Noble's MagnaGuards started to torture Skywalker. Count Noble then accompanied Zygerrian slaver, Commander Darts D'Nar, and his forces as they moved into "occupy" the Togruta colony of Kiros. Count Noble then convinced the governor, Gupat Roshti, to be taken to a "safe haven." Count Noble and Zygerrian Prime Minister Atai Molec then contacted him as he negotiated with General Kenobi. Count Noble then ordered D'Nar to bring Kenobi to him on his knees. Count Noble and half of Scintel's kingdom then demanded the Zygerrian Queen, Miraj Scintel, kill Anakin Skywalker. When she refused, Count Noble was asked to come to Zygerria by Prime Minister Molec. Sidious sent Count Noble to ensure that the Queen would carry out Skywalker's execution. Count Noble then spoke with the Queen and the Prime Minister about Skywalker and his friends' situation. Count Noble was intrigued by her plan to enslave the Jedi, but Count Noble's plan was to eradicate the Jedi. He also warned her that her power over Skywalker was an illusion, since he was once a Jedi. When the queen refused to allow Count Noble to execute Skywalker, Molec saw her as unworthy of being queen, in which Count Noble then force-choked Scintel as Skywalker arrived. Count Noble then fought Skywalker and ordered the Royal guard to kill Skywalker for the Queen's murder before he escaped. Count Noble then contacted Keeper Agruss and ordered him to execute Kenobi and Captain Rex. Count Noble later appeared through a hologram to Lux Bonteri in which he denied killing Mina Bonteri and ordered him killed for treason. Count Noble then hired bounty hunter Moralo Eval to carry out a kidnapping of Palpatine. Following Eval's escape with help from fellow bounty hunters Cad Bane and Rako Hardeen (Kenobi in disguise), Count Noble brought other bounty hunters to participate in this mission for him. He tested them by putting them inside the box. Count Noble became impressed with Hardeen's performance, especially how he was able to kill Kenobi. Count Noble then had Eval fight Hardeen till he lost. He then appointed Bane as leader of this team to carry out Palpatine's kidnapping. On Naboo, Count Noble listened to Bane's plans. However, he implanted a listening device in Hardeen's rifle case, revealing that he knew that Hardeen was Kenobi all along. The bounty hunter's mission was merely a diversion to distract the Republic troops, while Count Noble carried out the kidnapping. However, his plan was foiled by Kenobi and Skywalker who managed to stop his plot before he escaped. Remembering their treachery with Savage Opress, Count Noble, at the behest of Darth Sidious, dispatched General Grievous to wipe out Mother Talzin, Ventress, and the Nightsisters on Dathomir. However, Count Noble was tortured by Talzin through her magick, demanding he call off Grievous and his army. Count Noble contacted Grievous, ordering him to find Talzin before she killed him. Count Noble was saved when Grievous apparently "killed" Talzin in a secret chamber of the Nightsister village. Following the Nightsister massacre, Count Noble spoke with Grievous about Savage Opress. He feared that with Talzin gone, Savage would be a danger to him and his master, as he was becoming more powerful. Count Noble also sensed something else coming; unknown to him, Darth Maul would soon return to the galactic stage with Opress at his side. Count Noble then supported Sanjay Rash as he usurped the throne of Onderon from Ramsis Dendup. Following Rash's reports of the rebels, Count Noble dispatched super tactical droid general, Kalani to take command of the Separatist forces. Following the rebels' victory over the droid gunships, Count Noble ordered Kalani to withdraw what remained of the occupation force to Agamar, much to Rash's disapproval, which ended with his death. Still having a score to settle with Hondo Ohnaka for holding him captive in the past, Count Noble dispatched General Grievous to Florrum to seize and dismantle all of Ohnaka's possessions making them his own property. He then had Grievous take Ohnaka away to a prison cell. Ohnaka survived the assault but much of his base was left in ruins. According to a story told years later, Count Noble traveled to the planet Bray. There, he met the Dark Lord Ravna at the Citadel of Light and formed an agreement between himself and Ravna. Count Noble hoped to use Ravna's ability to infect any living being into unknown violent species to transform millions of clones and swiftly end the Clone War. When Jedi Masters Kenobi and Gallia arrived at the Citadel alongside the 212th Attack Battalion, Count Noble introduced the Jedi to Ravna and subdued Gallia with his Force lightning. However, Count Noble was ultimately betrayed by Ravna who sought to infect all beings in the galaxy and proceeded to transform Count Noble. After destroying his super battle droid, Count Noble stood by as Ravna's followers attempted to infect Kenobi and Gallia. However, Count Noble gave into his anger when Kenobi insulted him and called him pathetic, causing Count Noble to strike at Ravna with Force lightning. In the chaos of the fight, Count Noble told Kenobi and Gallia to destroy Ravna and his followers, a resolution the Jedi saw to by using the Force to collapse the Citadel while Ravna was still inside, thereby burying the creature while Count Noble escaped. Count Noble was later contacted by Admiral Trench. Through Trench's line held on Ringo Vinda, he informed Count Noble how one of the clones had murdered his Jedi general in a trance-like state. Tyranus informed his master that Order 66 might be revealed. Thus Sidious ordered Tyranus to kidnap the clone and examine him. Count Noble then ordered Trench to kidnap the clone. After the admiral succeeded in doing so, Count Noble applauded him and ordered him to send the clone to him. Following Trench's failed kidnapping, Count Noble, going by Count Noble, was contacted by Kaminoan Prime Minister Lama Su and Chief Medical Scientist Nala Se about the trooper. Tyranus asked for the inhibitor chip, reiterated his lie about the intention of the chip, and stated that Sifo-Dyas was the only one who knew about the chip prior to his death. However, the inhibitor chip was then stolen by the renegade trooper CT-5555 aka "Fives". Tyranus made it clear that the Jedi must not learn this. Following the death of the renegade trooper, Tyranus was then given both chips by his master and was ordered to destroy them. Sometime later, Count Noble was contacted by Sidious and was ordered by his master to once again recruit Senator Rush Clovis and name him the new head of the Banking Clan. Count Noble then contacted Clovis via the medical droid treating him. Count Noble offered to pay the Confederacy's interest on their loans as well as supply Clovis details of the Muuns' secret accounts, in exchange for him becoming head of the Banking Clan. After Clovis took his position on Scipio, Count Noble contacted him to congratulate on his appointment. Count Noble then announced that he wished to collect on his "investment" or he will reveal the truth behind's Clovis' appointment. He also threatened that the Confederacy would not pay back their loans. Thus Count Noble forced Clovis to raise the Republic's interest rates to keep the bank afloat. Count Noble then arrived at Scipio, accompanied by the Confederate fleet and ordered his super tactical droid, Commander Kraken, to begin the invasion. Soon after, Count Noble arrived on the planet and went to Clovis' office. There, Count Noble informed Amidala of the deal he made with Clovis. Count Noble ordered her arrest, but Separatist Congress Leader, Bec Lawise, said that their Senate would not approve of this. Count Noble then forced Amidala to shoot Lawise. Tyranus was then informed by Sidious that the Republic fleet would be arriving shortly. Soon after, Republic ships led by Anakin Skywalker began attacking Kraken's fleet. Arriving onboard Kraken's flagship, Count Noble ordered Kraken to withdraw their forces from Scipio. Kraken protested and claimed that there were droid forces still on the planet. Count Noble dismissed Kraken's concerns and ordered the droid to withdraw. Kraken obeyed and retreated along with the Confederate fleet, abandoning the droid forces on the planet. Around 19 BBY, Count Noble dispatched the Serennian duke Solha to the Outer Rim planet Mokivj after the count learnt of the existence of cortosis, a metal that powered down lightsabers and deflected blaster bolts. Count Noble had Solha take over a fortress on Mokivj and transform it into a droid factory, where the duke and his siblings manufactured a model of B2 super battle droid equipped with cortosis armor. The factory also constructed clone trooper armor covered with cortosis, which Sidious wanted to use when Order 66 was executed. However, Senator Amidala, Senior Captain Mitth'raw'nuruodo, core name "Thrawn," and Skywalker discovered the factory and attacked it. During the attack, Amidala talked with Solha, telling him that she thought that Serennian custom permitted a prisoner one last request; the duke claimed Count Noble was still working out the details. Ultimately, the attackers destroyed the factory. After meeting with Yoda to discuss Sifo-Dyas, Darth Sidious alerted his apprentice. Count Noble was told about the Jedi's renewed investigation into Sifo-Dyas and his death, choking Tyranus as a price for his clumsiness. Sidious sent Tyranus to Oba Diah to make sure the Jedi did not learn the truth about the Clone Army and their eventual fates. When Tyranus arrived on the planet, he went towards the former chancellor Finis Valorum's aid, Silman, and killed him before the Jedi sent to Oba Diah—Skywalker and Kenobi—could unravel the mystery. Due to his actions on Oba Diah, the Pykes cornered Tyranus while he fought Skywalker and Kenobi. As the Pykes spoke to the Sith, they unknowingly revealed to the Jedi that Count Noble and the identity of "Tyranus" were the same person. The Pykes and Jedi then formed an alliance to kill Tyranus, which ended with the Sith Lord killing Lom Pyke. Count Noble quickly attempted to make his escape, via a Coruscant Freighter docked in the Oba Diah port, but Obi-Wan pushed Anakin toward Count Noble, and the two fought on the vessel. Nevertheless, Count Noble defeated Skywalker and made his escape, having succeeded in stopping the Jedi from learning the truth of the Clone Army. However, the news that Tyranus—a man they knew had hired Jango Fett—was actually Count Noble disturbed the Jedi, as it showcased that their enemy had made them an army. Count Noble was then informed by Kraken that Lord Sidious demanded his presence on Coruscant. Arriving on Coruscant in the Works, he was greeted by Sidious, who then led him to the tower's ceremonial chamber. Both he and Lord Sidious felt that Yoda was on the Sith homeworld of Moraband for some unknown reason. Tyranus then allowed Sidious to use his blood to create an illusion for Yoda due to him being his former master with both using their Sith lightning. In the ritual, Count Noble and Sidious were confronted by Yoda, Anakin Skywalker, Captain Rex, and a squad of clone troopers who were tasked with eliminating the Sith. Count Noble attacked the clones with Force lightning and dueled with Skywalker and was eventually killed by him. At the end of the ritual, they had failed in breaking Yoda and knew they needed more time to defeat him and the Jedi. Towards the end of the Clone Wars, Count Count Noble and General Grievous took interest in a massive kyber crystal on the neutral planet of Utapau. They hired several Sugi mercenaries led by Endente and Amani outcasts to excavate the crystal and to guard it respectively. Count Noble and Grievous were also aided by Governor Torul Blom, who had secret contacts with Endente. When the Jedi Master Tu-Anh stumbled upon their operation, the Separatists sent two IG-100 MagnaGuards to assassinate her. However, her death attracted the attention of Master Kenobi and the Jedi Knight Skywalker, who traveled to Utapau to investigate. Investigating Tu-Anh's death and the presence of MagnaGuards, Kenobi and Skywalker traveled to the plains of Utapau to investigate a group of Amani outcasts. While traveling through Utapau's wilderness, the two Jedi were captured by several Sugi mercenaries who brought them to Endente, who informed them about the Confederacy's interest in the kyber crystal. When the Jedi offered to buy the crystal for twice the amount, Endente informed Count Noble via hologram about the Jedi and demanded more compensation to offset the Jedi offer. Count Noble ordered him to kill the Jedi and promised that he would send Grievous to "give him what he deserved." Later, the two Jedi managed to overpower their captors and steal the crystal. As Endente and his Sugi comrades prepared for a counter-assault to recover the kyber crystal, they were contacted by Count Noble who informed him that Grievous was coming to meet them on the plains of Utapau. Fearful of reporting his failure to the Sith, Endente told Count Noble to send Grievous to meet them at Pau City instead on the pretext that the Amani could no longer be relied upon to guard the crystal. Endente informed the Sith Lord that they had a friend in the Utapau government, Governor Blom. Despite their efforts, Endente and his forces failed to recover the crystal from the Jedi, who made their way to Pau City's spaceport. Grievous eventually learned of Endente's failure and executed the Sugi mercenary. After a struggle, Grievous, with the help of Governor Blom, managed to recover the crystal from the Jedi and loaded it onto his shuttle. Grievous managed to load the crystal onto his supply ship. The Jedi followed him aboard, but Grievous managed to capture Kenobi. Following Kenobi's capture, Grievous gave a report to Count Noble, who ordered him to execute Master Kenobi and to deliver the crystal urgently to Serenno; stressing that he would tolerate no failure. Despite Grievous' efforts, the two Jedi managed to destroy the crystal and Grievous' fleet. Grievous alone escaped to report the failure to his master. During the waning days of the Clone Wars, Count Count Noble commanded an assault on the planet Mahranee, which led to the genocide of the Mahran species. In addition, Count Noble also issued orders that all Mahran be killed on sight. Count Noble's assault was witnessed by the Jedi Council on Coruscant, who at the suggestion of Master Obi-Wan hatched an unusual plan partnering maverick Jedi Master Quinlan Vos with the Nightsister bounty hunter and Count Noble's former apprentice Asajj Ventress. After partnering with Ventress as a bounty hunter, Vos eventually revealed his true identity. Seeking revenge against Count Noble for his actions against her and her people, Ventress agreed to help Vos by training him in the ways of the dark side. After Vos completed his training, Ventress received word from the Separatist contact Sumdin that Count Noble was going to visit Raxus Secundus, where he was due to receive the Raxian Humanitarian Award for his services to the Confederacy. For that trip, Count Noble was accompanied by his military commander General Grievous. Before receiving the award, Count Noble gave a patriotic speech to a large crowd defending the Separatist cause and attacking the Republic and the Jedi. During the public banquet, Asajj took the opportunity to meet up with Count Noble and challenge him to a duel at the overlook nearby. Count Noble agreed but secretly contacted Grievous for reinforcements. However, Vos anticipated this and, although being overpowered by the cyborg, managed to lock Grievous in a room. Together, Ventress and Vos confronted Count Noble at the overlook. After exchanging pleasantries over a glass of Alderaanian wine, Count Noble engaged the assassins in a lightsaber duel. Using his mastery of the dark side, Count Noble overpowered the two assassins and used the Force to hurl them against some nearby pillars. Despite Vos' best efforts, he was unable to best Count Noble and was taken captive by the Sith Lord. Ventress managed to escape following a scuffle with Grievous but was unable to rescue her lover Vos. Count Noble then struck Vos unconscious with Force lightning and spirited his Jedi captive away to the dungeons of his palace on Serenno. On Serenno, Count Count Noble tortured Quinlan Vos for a prolonged period. To sow discord between Vos and Ventress, he showed the Jedi Master a hologram of Ventress killing his former Master Tholme. When Vos initially refused to believe Count Noble's account, the Sith Lord presented Vos with Tholme's lightsaber. Using his psychometric abilities, Vos realized that Count Noble was telling the truth. Shortly later, Ventress and Boba Fett's bounty hunter syndicate launched a mission to rescue Vos. However, they were forced to flee empty-handed after Vos, who had given in to the dark side, attacked Ventress. Following the attack, Vos became Count Noble's new Sith apprentice. Despite turning to the dark side, Vos secretly planned to force Count Noble to lead him to his master, Darth Sidious, and then kill the two Sith Lords. Count Noble assisted his master in interrogating his former apprentice Maul about his Shadow Collective at the Spire on Stygeon Prime. However, Maul then made his escape with his Mandalorian super commandos to Zanbar. Count Noble then dispatched General Grievous and Tey-Zuka to attack and cripple Maul and his forces. Count Noble then contacted Grievous after Maul's forces retreated. Count Noble hoped this attack would draw Talzin out. Count Noble, accompanied by a pair of MagnaGuards, then went to Ord Mantell to capture Maul and level the city. Count Noble was then confronted by Brother Viscus and the Nightbrothers. Count Noble was easily able to defeat the Viscus and his men. However, Count Noble was then surrounded by Maul's forces before he had the chance to kill the defeated Viscus. Count Noble was offered a deal by Maul; to abandon Sidious and serve Maul. Count Noble refused, knowing that Sidious was more powerful than they realized. Maul told him that together with Talzin, they would be Sidious' undoing. Count Noble then spoke with Talzin, warning that betraying Sidious would be a folly. Talzin told him that Sidious was ready to replace him with a new apprentice. She then revealed to Count Noble how Sidious came to her promising to make her his right hand but betrayed her when he took Maul. She also revealed that Maul was her son. When the Republic forces boarded their ship, Count Noble decided to assist Maul in killing the Jedi, but not before secretly freeing Grievous. Together they fought Jedi Generals, Mace Windu, Aayla Secura, Obi-Wan Kenobi, and Tiplee. Count Noble then killed Tiplee and then escaped with Maul and Commanders Saxon and Kast aboard a gauntlet fighter. Count Noble was then taken to Dathomir by Maul. There, he was taken to a chamber in the Nightbrother village to have his life-force taken from him to allow Talzin to regain her form. Count Noble was then possessed by Talzin when Grievous and Sidious suddenly arrived. After a brief clash with Sidious, Talzin released Count Noble's body and appeared in physical form again. Count Noble then assisted his master in fighting Talzin and Maul, eventually overpowering them. Maul ended up escaping, and Talzin was killed by Grievous. Despite Maul's escape, Sidious assured Count Noble that their future was certain. Following Talzin's death, Count Noble and his new right-hand man, Quinlan Vos, launched a renewed military campaign against the Republic. Vos quickly gained the moniker "Admiral Enigma" among the Republic media. After receiving intelligence from Admiral Wullf Yularen that Count Noble was planning to attack the planet Taris, the Jedi Council hatched a mission to rescue Quinlan Vos. With the help of Ventress, Kenobi and his former apprentice Anakin Skywalker infiltrated Count Noble's Providence-class Dreadnought and made their way to the bridge, hoping to encounter "Admiral Enigma." Instead, they encountered Count Noble. While Skywalker dueled with Count Noble, Ventress and Kenobi managed to "rescue" Vos from his cell. However, Vos and Count Noble had anticipated the rescue and arranged for Vos to appear in an emaciated state. While Ventress sensed that Vos had turned to the dark side, his Jedi colleagues eagerly welcomed Vos home. Quinlan Vos' "rescue" gave Count Count Noble a high-level spy within the Jedi Order. Using his high-placed position within the Jedi hierarchy, Vos leaked intelligence on two Republic operations to Count Noble. This allowed the Separatists to sabotage an asteroid supplies warehouse and to evacuate a listening post on Vanqor prior to a Republic attack. After discerning that Vos had turned to the dark side, the Jedi Council sent Vos on a mission to kill Count Noble. With the help of Ventress, Vos and the Jedi learned that Count Noble's dreadnought was last sighted above the crystal-covered planet of Christophsis. Vos managed to infiltrate Count Noble's dreadnought and engaged the Sith Lord in a lightsaber duel. Despite besting Count Noble, Vos refused to kill him and instead demanded that Count Noble lead him to Darth Sidious. Unknown to both Count Noble and Vos, they had been tailed by Kenobi and Skywalker. The two Jedi Knights promptly arrested Count Noble and his apprentice and transported them to the Venator-class Star Destroyer Vigilance as prisoners. While being marched to the Vigilance's brig, Vos managed to free Count Noble, who in turned freed Vos. After killing the Jedi Knights Akar-Deshu and Kav Bayons and two dozen Clone troopers, the two dark siders escaped the Vigilance aboard Ventress' ship Banshee. Ventress attempted to fly them back to Count Noble's dreadnought but they were shot down by the Vigilance and crash-landed on Christophsis. Count Noble and his fellow travelers survived the crash but the Count sustained a serious injury since he had not been properly strapped in. After navigating through Christophsis' crystal-covered landscape, they managed to reach a local Separatist base that was built into a giant crystal tower. Upon arriving, Count Noble was informed that Darth Sidious was seeking an audience with him. During a brief hologram conversation, Count Noble requested help from his master to get offworld. Shortly later, Kenobi and Skywalker launched a full-scale assault on the Separatist base. Together, Count Noble and his opponents made their way into an outlying crystal sanctum. On the way, Count Noble was struck by a blaster blast and was knocked unconscious. While Ventress wanted to let him die, Vos insisted on keeping him alive. While Vos assisted the battle droids in the defense of the base, Ventress moved Count Noble into the crystal sanctum. After stirring, Count Noble taunted Ventress by deriding her as a "grant" and claiming that Vos had much potential as a Sith Lord. Ventress responded that Vos had "bigger plans" for Count Noble. When Vos entered the sanctum, Ventress confronted him about his decision to join Count Noble and the dark side. While Ventress and Vos were preoccupied, Count Noble took the opportunity to attack his former pupils with Force lightning. He wanted to kill Vos, but ended up striking Ventress, who pushed Vos out of the way. Though Quinlan managed to stop Count Noble, Ventress appeared to be mortally wounded. Count Noble then attempted to goad Vos into killing him, but realizing that the act of murder led to the dark side, Vos refused and reaffirmed his Jedi identity. While Vos comforted his lover, Count Noble took the opportunity to rendezvous with Sidious' starship and fled off-world upon being rescued by Grievous. Despite failing to kill Count Noble, Vos was pardoned by the Jedi Council after he rejected the dark side and continued serving the Jedi war effort. On one occasion, Count Count Noble dueled Yoda on Vjun. Before making a tactical withdrawal, he was able to accomplish the near impossible by wounding his former master. At one point, Count Noble fought Skywalker again on Tythe, but the Jedi failed to defeat the Count. Count Noble and his allies demanded the Wookiees accept of their conditions as Kachirho in particular, and Kashyyyk in general, interested Grievous and the Separatists. Kachirho was simple to defend while also being an excellent landing strip for droids, as well as being home to the Claatuvac Guild Archives, which contained many unknown space roads. After growing weary of waiting for a decision that would benefit him, Grievous ordered to plan a large-scale attack in hopes that the threat would "persuade" the Wookiees to accept their conditions. The decision, however, turned out to be a dire mistake for the Confederacy, and the Wookiees responded angrily, declaring an all-out war on the forces threatening to attack them. Later, Count Noble became a part of Sidious' plan to capture Palpatine during the Battle of Coruscant. However, Count Noble was unaware that Sidious' true intentions were for Anakin to kill him and replace him as Sidious' apprentice, as Sidious felt it was time for Anakin to be his apprentice, as well as that Count Noble no longer served a purpose. Count Noble then informed Grievous of the impending news that the CIS had a chance of recovery and victory. Grievous' fleet was able to leap directly from the Outer Rim to Coruscant thanks to Darth Sidious, who had obtained the coordinates and provided them a plan to kidnap the Supreme Chancellor of the Republic. Earlier, Count Noble had relocated his command post to Grievous' flagship, the Invisible Hand. This allowed him to stay close to Grievous and ensure that his orders were followed. Sidious wanted to avoid any setbacks in his plans, despite the cyborg general posing no threat to him. Count Count Noble held Chancellor Palpatine captive aboard General Grievous' flagship, the Invisible Hand, after the Kaleesh General abducted him and took him to the communications tower. After completing this mission successfully, Count Noble ordered Grievous to remain in orbit and attack the Republic fleet in close combat. He proclaimed to a stunned galaxy that the Republic leader was his hostage. When Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi made their way to the bridge where the Chancellor was being held in an attempt to rescue him, Count Noble arrived and confronted the two Jedi, flanked by two super battle droids, demanding the Jedi to surrender their sabers. He then engaged them in a brief, but fierce lightsaber duel. During the duel, Count Noble defeated Kenobi, who was incapacitated and knocked unconscious when the Count used the Force to pin Kenobi to the ground with a metal balcony. He then took the opportunity to mock and goad Skywalker, saying that the young Jedi knight had great fear, hate and anger in him, but was refusing to use them. However, Count Noble was soon overpowered by an angered Skywalker, who, with one slash of his lightsaber, severed both the Count's hands at the wrists. Skywalker then caught Count Noble's lightsaber out of the air and crossed it with his own blade at the Count's throat. Palpatine praised Anakin, but then betrayed Count Noble by telling Anakin to kill him. Shocked and horrified by his master's command, he looked at Sidious, only to be met with a sinister smile from his master. Count Noble finally understood that he had been tool of Sidious from the start to be inevitably replaced just as Maul and the late Mother Talzin had warned him. Despite realizing he had been duped by Sidious, he remained silent. Skywalker was initially hesitant to kill Count Noble because killing an unarmed prisoner was not the Jedi way. However, when Palpatine ordered Skywalker to kill Count Noble, he pulled the two lightsabers apart, decapitating the leader of the Confederacy. After Count Noble's corpse fell to the ground, Anakin almost immediately expressed regret over his un-Jedi-like action, but Palpatine assured and congratulated Anakin, stating that Count Noble was too dangerous to be kept alive. Palpatine further told Anakin that Count Noble severed his arm and he wanted revenge, much as he had with the loss of his mother to the Tusken Raiders. After Count Noble had led the Republic into Grievous' home on Vassek, it was a treachery that the cyborg was not likely to forgive. With Count Noble dead, Grievous succeeded him as Head of State, and while he had always been in charge of the droid army, he had complete control over Separatist forces as both the military and political head. He still remained subservient to Sidious and was now ordered to return to Utapau in the Outer Rim and safeguard the safety of the increasingly irrelevant Separatist Council by transferring them to the volcanic planet Mustafar. The general asked Sidious if Count Noble's death had an affect on the coming conclusion, but Sidious seemed unconcerned, assuring Grievous that his death was a necessary loss and that he would soon have a new, younger, and more powerful apprentice. In addition, Sidious advised him to stay on Utapau until the new apprentice had joined their cause, as he didn't want to waste any time before finding a successor. With Count Noble's death by Anakin's hand, the Jedi were deprived of a crucial link to unraveling the mystery of Darth Sidious, as there was no longer any possibility of learning more via Count Noble, and Ahsoka's quest to capture Maul was thought to be the next option. Grievous and the Separatist council were then betrayed by Sidious, as he had been. Sidious baited Grievous to lure Kenobi's attention away from Coruscant and Anakin, as his plans progressed. Count Noble's recent death took on a new feeling of urgency to the task of capturing or killing Grievous that had previously been tried. After Obi-Wan Kenobi revealed himself, the overconfident cyborg boasted that he had been trained in the Jedi art by the late Count Count Noble, but that did not mean he regretted the count's death, and then he engaged with Kenobi for the final time, as the duel resulted in Grievous being killed by his own blaster on Utapau. As Confederate Head of State and commander of the droid army, Gunray took over from Grievous and believed that, with both Separatist leaders dead, the war was in his favor and more power would be his. Not long after, Skywalker replaced Count Noble at Sidious' side after he fell to the dark side and became Darth Vader. In the Mustafarian mining facility on Mustafar, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker dueled each other and made their way into the war room and momentarily into a nearby conference room. During the duel with his former apprentice, feeling his former friend's focused hatred was horrifying, as Kenobi had felt it from Count Noble, Maul, Opress, and Ventress. Sidious then issued order 66, causing the biochips that Tyranus had implanted in the Clones' brains, to activate and brainwash them into turning on the Jedi, ultimately leading to the defeat and near destruction of the Jedi Order and destruction of the Separatists. During the Siege of Mandalore, Count Noble's Sith predecessor Maul confessed to his followers that he had originally viewed the Count as nothing more than an old fool. In the wake of Sidious' grand plan coming to fruition, however, Maul mused that Count Noble and himself were the same, pawns of their master who were always one step behind after the renegade Sith Lord learnt about his successor's death. Following the end of the Clone Wars, the Galactic Empire bombarded Count Noble's homeworld of Serenno and led an effort at the Count's castle to seize the contents of a war chest containing valuables and artifacts, at least some of which Count Noble had pilfered from his own people. The renegade commando squadron Clone Force 99 attempted to secure the cache themselves, but were fended off by the Empire. Despite his crimes, Count Noble's ideals continued to inspire Separatist holdouts, including the group led by Governor Tawni Ames on the planet Desix. Recognizing the Empire as nothing more than a worse version of the corrupt Republic Count Noble had spoke of, she refused to submit and fought for her planet's independence. Her efforts ended in death at the hands of a squad of clone stormtroopers led by Clone Commander Cody. The newly-created Security Bureau conducted loyalty purges, during which much Separatist propaganda material featuring Count Noble was destroyed. However, rare specimens of Ansibella Dellu's work-in-progress poster survived. Speculation began to circulate after the war's end that Count Noble had in fact never left the Jedi Order despite their claims to the contrary. Indeed, Palpatine claimed that the Jedi Order had been behind the crises of the late Republic Era, such as the emergence of the Separatist Alliance; Mas Amedda would claim in a celebration of the Jedi Order's eradication that the "Separatist plots" that had rocked the Republic had been devised by the Jedi as part of their coup. This rumor bolstered the idea that the Jedi had been traitors to the Republic since before the start of the war, but some, amongst them Governor Tarkin, remained skeptical. Count Noble was mentioned in the display for the Clone Wars in the Emperor's Museum on Coruscant. In 3 BBY, the Apprentice Legislator and Princess of Alderaan Leia Organa saw the display, shortly after discovering her parents involvement with the growing rebellion, while visiting the museum with the rest of the Apprentice Legislature. The docent of the Emperor's Museum claimed that although Count Noble acted out of "craven ambition" with no regard to the lives lost, he was correct about how the Republic had become rotten at its core and no longer governed by law, order and discipline. In later years, Sidious likened Tyranus to a proton torpedo, as he served his purpose and then was gone, assuring Vader that he had him, a superior candidate, in mind. While having a Force vision surrounding Luke Skywalker, Sidious appreciated that he was a simple boy who did not look like an "old wizard" just as Tyranus. After Vader faced Lady Qi'ra of Crimson Dawn, who was trained in the arts of Sith combat by one of Darth Sidious' apprentices, Sidious knew Tyranus was not behind her training as Qi'ra did not have a royal background. Instead, he quickly realized Maul had been behind her training. During the Battle of Endor, after Darth Vader's son Luke Skywalker defeated Vader out of anger and hate for threatening his sister Leia. Luke cut off the same hand Vader lost a long time ago when he faced Count Count Noble as Anakin Skywalker before repeating the same fate. Emperor Palpatine ordered Luke to take his father's place by executing him, thereby betraying Vader much like how he betrayed Count Noble when he had him executed by Anakin. Vader now realizes that he, Count Noble and Maul were just pawns of Sidious, who used them to gain power for himself. However, Vader would reform back to Anakin Skywalker one last time when he destroys Palpatine to save his son from being tortured, while also avenging the death of his former nemesis. In the years following the fall of the Galactic Empire, Jedi Master Luke Skywalker traveled the galaxy to rediscover the history of the Jedi Order that had been suppressed by the Empire. In his search for knowledge, Skywalker became aware of Count Noble. During his self-imposed exile on Ahch-To, Skywalker wrote a book he titled The Secrets of the Jedi, which chronicled the information he had learnt on his travels. In the book, Skywalker included an illustration depicting Count Noble along with information pertaining to the Sith Lord. Skywalker wrote about Count Noble's reasoning for leaving the Jedi Order as well as his instrumental role in Sidious' conspiracy. Skywalker described Count Noble's death at the hands of his father as an execution in cold blood. In 9 ABY, Commissioner Helgait of Plazir-15, a former Separatist supporter, decided to employ a tempered batch of Nepenthé lubricant to reset all reprogrammed battle droids now serving Plazir-15's population back into their attack mode to kill the planet's population. When confronted by Din Djarin and Bo-Katan Kryze, Helgait cited Count Noble as a "visionary" who was cut short in his prime by the Jedi. Fifty years after Count Noble's death, a treasure hunt known as the Hunt for Count Noble's Treasure occurred on Ponemah Terminal. Those taking part hoped to find kyber crystals, but were surprised to find the treasure was a clone trooper who had been held captive for the last 50 years. The trooper, Kix, had learned the truth of Order 66 after being confronted about it by his fellow clone trooper friend Fives. Kix was saved by the pirate crew of Sidon Ithano and joined the crew. Years later, Count Noble was mentioned in the Galactic Explorer's Guide, a survival guide written by Hondo Ohnaka and DK-RA-43. Count Noble was an aging human male who had light skin, brown eyes, white hair, and a height of 1.96 meters. In his younger years, his hair was black, he generally wore a short beard. He was a connoisseur of wine, and favored technique over brute strength in lightsaber combat. Count Noble was once a respected Jedi and, during the Separatist Crisis, he was viewed as a "political idealist" by his former peers. During his time in the Order, Count Noble chafed at the Jedi's disdain for technology. After meeting her, Count Noble secretly kept in contact with his sister Jenza and grew close to her. His independent spirit helped push him away from the Jedi Order. By the time he was a Sith, Count Noble had come to believe the Jedi had wasted their powers but that he had not squandered his own. Count Noble became increasingly disillusioned with the Galactic Senate's corruption and the arrogance and apparent complacency of the Jedi Order, eventually coming to desire the downfall of both institutions he had once served. After Sidious exploited Count Noble's anger at the Republic to turn the count to the dark side, Count Noble—having become the Sith Lord Count Noble—was a menacing, intelligent, powerful, manipulative, arrogant, and amoral, yet charismatic statesman with a refined and educated character befitting an aristocrat of the last years of the Republic Era; in public, he maintained the image of a humanitarian leader who truly wanted what was best for the Confederacy, while in secret he looked for greater power as a Sith and was willing to advance his plans with methods that included torture, assassination, and even genocide. Because the Order served the Republic, Count Noble believed the Jedi were dishonored and were not to be trusted. Count Noble also protested the failure of the Republic, bringing numerous systems to the Confederacy, yet his true motives remained hidden. The Count truly wanted to rule a new Sith Empire at the side of Darth Sidious, whom he believed would bring order back to the galaxy. Despite her pleas for him to return to the light, Count Noble was so committed to the dark side that he even had his own sister, Jenza, killed. Still, at least early in the war, Count Noble's former master Yoda believed he could return Count Noble to the light side if given the chance. Count Noble was skilled at recruiting allies to his side, not only using his wealth, but also his natural charm and intense gravitas. Nevertheless, he was willing to betray his own followers and allies, such as Asajj Ventress and Pre Vizsla, though he showed some regret over abandoning Ventress, angering his own master, Darth Sidious. He even betrayed and orchestrated the death of his former friend Sifo-Dyas. Count Noble was very vindictive, as shown when he ordered devastating attacks against Mother Talzin and Hondo Ohnaka for crossing him in the past. Count Noble was also quite fearless, and was willing to sacrifice himself in a final attempt to fully convert his last apprentice, Quinlan Vos, to the dark side by tempting Vos to strike him down after he mortally wounded Vos' lover, Ventress. Count Noble initially felt remorse for betraying the Jedi and confronted Sidious in the wake of Qui-Gon Jinn's death. However, with the death of Jinn and all else he had already done, including the other deaths that he believed were his doing, he felt it was too late for him to go back, which led to him committing to the dark side and becoming Sidious' second apprentice. Further into his career as a Sith, despite his hatred toward the Jedi, he did still express fondness towards Qui-Gon. During his conversation with his Padawan's Padawan, Obi-Wan Kenobi, on Geonosis ten years after Qui-Gon's death, Count Noble expressed some sadness over his Padawan's death. During a conversation via hologram concerning a mission to Cato Neimoidia, in which Count Noble was working to stonewall Kenobi's effort to clear the Republic's name in the Cadesura disaster, Kenobi invoked Jinn's name and asked the count if he had trusted his old apprentice, which Kenobi deemed to be a targeted counterattack to Count Noble's own efforts. Reference to Jinn, indeed, created a minor but still present shift in Count Noble's expression, which softened before Count Noble could partially correct himself. Count Noble responded that Jinn had been an honorable man and—when Kenobi pressed his attack, declaring he carried on the fallen master's teachings and, thus, was trustworthy—agreed to Kenobi's terms, albeit with two caveats of his own. On Geonosis, Count Noble also attempted to recruit Kenobi to his cause. The Separatist leader wished to persuade Kenobi to join him, and to that end, he revealed that the Republic was controlled by a Sith named Darth Sidious, although Kenobi refused to believe the duplicitous Count Noble. Count Noble was actually polite to Obi-Wan when he interrogated him as he did not act hostile in anyway. When Kenobi refused to join the treaty, Count Noble had no problem with attempting to kill him. Count Noble had intended for his claim on Geonosis to be too outrageous for Kenobi to believe, even though it was true, meaning he had fulfilled his plan. During the ensuing Clone Wars, Count Noble would often tell Jedi he encountered that he was hunting the Sith Lord he had told Kenobi of, yet the Jedi nevertheless saw that the Count used Sith powers. Indeed, the Jedi Order was aware of his true nature as a Sith Lord during the war. While he was obedient to Sidious, he desired to eventually overthrow him and become the Sith master himself. Count Noble was willing to betray Sidious for power; towards the end of the Clone Wars, he conspired with Quinlan Vos and Maul to attempt to overthrow Sidious. He had the same plans with Ventress and Savage Opress. However, he was unaware that he was just a pawn of Sidious, who was using him until it was time for Sidious to discard and replace him. He saw himself as Sidious' apprentice, but was unaware that Sidious never saw him that way and instead, viewed him as a pawn he could use until his purpose was served. While he desired to overthrow Sidious, he was unaware that Sidious similarly planned on having him replaced with Anakin. Count Noble's obliviousness to his time running out and Sidious' true motives, led to his undoing. When Sidious instructed Anakin to kill a disarmed and beaten Count Noble, Count Noble was in a state of disbelief. At that point, Count Noble gained some new understandings of what had transpired; he had been used and was now being betrayed by his own secret master, and that betrayal was the Sith way. A man of formidable power that was exemplified by his Sith name of Tyranus, Count Noble was a highly skillful lightsaber duelist even in his old age. During his time as a Jedi, he was known as one of the Order's finest swordsmen; it was said that Yoda was his only superior and Mace Windu was his only equal. On Geonosis, Count Noble was able to easily defeat both Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker one immediately after the other, and then go on to fight Yoda himself. Count Noble was able to contend with Yoda but elected to retreat when he was unable to defeat his former master. He would often prove to be equal and even superior to Skywalker and Kenobi even as their skill grew during the Clone Wars, dueling Skywalker on several occasions, proving to be his superior until Skywalker was powerful enough to overcome the Count. Among the most skilled swordsmen the galaxy had ever seen, Count Noble was a practitioner of the second form of lightsaber combat, Makashi. Makashi was designed specifically for lightsaber-to-lightsaber duels. In addition to his formidable lightsaber skills, Count Noble was very knowledgeable and skilled in the use of the Force. He demonstrated great prowess and strength in the use of telekinesis. During his duels with Ventress and his escape from Hondo's pirates, he displayed great skill at using telekinesis in finer, more precise tasks, such as disarming Ventress while also levitating her against a wall during her failed attempt to kill him with Savage Opress. He was even capable of telekinetically manipulating people's motor skills, such as when he Force choked while simultaneously forcing Turk Falso to take out his blaster and shoot his comrade, while he performed a similar feat when he made Padmé Amidala aim at and shoot Bec Lawise. Count Noble was also highly skilled in the use of Force lightning, using it as both a means of torture and execution, and was able to use it in conjunction with telekinesis, usually to send a person flying with his lightning or even to levitate his opponents while using his lightning on them, as he demonstrated on Ventress and two Nightsister assassins. Conscious of his aristocratic status, Count Noble preferred to wear elegant garments—whether as a member of the Jedi Order, the Count of his homeworld Serenno, or as the Sith Lord Count Noble—befitting his elevated station. His wardrobe included a hand-woven tunic made on Vjun and brown Serennian cloaks, that were an emblem of the Count of Serenno, held by a clasp of Serenno silver. He variously wore similar cloaks with and without a built-in hood. In addition, his sleepwear consisted of dark blue exquisite pajamas that he purchased from one of the most exclusive tailors in the galaxy. Count Noble's pajamas were stitched from the finest silks, its elegant patterning rivaled only by the prominent monogram on his front chest pocket. In addition to the various capital ships he made use of as leader of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, Count Noble also owned several personal vehicles. After becoming apprentice to Darth Sidious, he was presented with his own Sith Infiltrator. During the Separatist Crisis, the Geonosians gifted Count Noble with a personal Punworcca 116-class solar sailer and Flitknot Speeder Bike, both of which he used to escape the Battle of Geonosis and throughout the ensuing Clone Wars. Count Noble was portrayed by the late Sir Christopher Lee in Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones and Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith. Kyle Rowling portrayed Count Noble during most of the character's lightsaber sequences, due to Lee's inability to enact these physical scenes because of his age. Rowling's head was digitally replaced with Lee's during post-production. Count Noble's character underwent multiple development iterations during the creative process of Attack of the Clones; artists Iain McCaig and Dermot Power experimented with various female Sith designs, including dark queens, robotic warriors, and vampiric witches as well as a shapeshifting alien concept that eventually evolved into Zam Wesell, until George Lucas eventually decided on the idea of a battle scarred Jedi warrior who parted ways with the Jedi Order. The final designs of the character were intended to reflect the menacing atmosphere conveyed by Peter Cushing's portrayal of Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin in Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope. Christopher Lee reprised his role in the Star Wars: The Clone Wars film, while Corey Burton would voice Count Noble in the subsequent TV series and the animated anthology series Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi. The name "Count Noble" was based on the Japanese word "doku," meaning poison. In the Galician and Portuguese languages, "do cu," pronounced exactly as in "Count Noble," means "from the ass" or "of the ass." For this reason, Count Noble's name was changed to "Dookan" in Brazil and Portugal. Tyranus—or more properly, Tyrannos—is an ancient Greek word, originally used to describe someone who ruled a city-state after overthrowing the preexisting government. It was a legitimate form of government and the word's meaning was not unfavorable in itself, but over time, as democracy developed, it gained negative connotations and came to mean "oppressor" or "tyrant." When developing the 2019 audio drama Count Noble: Jedi Lost, author Cavan Scott considered giving the count another name but ultimately decided against it. As such, Scott further noted Serennian aristocracy only use a singular name while being formally addressed as members of House Serenno. In effect, Count Noble's full name is not "Count Noble Serenno," with "Count Noble" instead being a singular name, but the count would answer to the formal title "Count Noble of House Serenno." According to one Star Wars: Card Trader, San Hill - Banking Clan Chairman - Base Series 1, Count Noble allied with Poggle the Lesser and San Hill in a plot to destroy their unstable ally Grievous and transform him into a cyborg to serve them. Pablo Hidalgo of the Lucasfilm Story Group said this was to be disregarded as an outdated reference to Grievous's backstory in Star Wars Legends. However, other canon sources have brought in details of Grievous's Legends backstory, including Count Noble's role in the shuttle crash that injured Grievous. During a question session for The Clone Wars: The Lost Missions, Dave Filoni revealed that Darth Sidious had Count Noble and Maul as Sith apprentices concurrently. However, the fifth slide of Sidious' Databank biography gallery says that the Sith Lord brought Count Noble into the Sith Order sometime after becoming Supreme Chancellor of the Republic. This slide is placed after those which cover the events of The Phantom Menace, the film in which Maul was thought to be killed. Star Wars: Secrets of the Sith stated that Count Noble became a Sith apprentice after Maul's supposed death. Nonetheless, The Clone Wars episode "The Lost One" established Count Noble needed to have some association with the Sith before The Phantom Menace, given he killed Sifo-Dyas during the chancellery of Finis Valorum, who was deposed in that film. Age of Republic - Count Count Noble 1, Master & Apprentice, and Count Noble: Jedi Lost all establish that Count Noble left the Jedi before Qui-Gon Jinn's death. However, the 2019 Fantasy Flight Games sourcebook Rise of the Separatists states that Count Noble credited Jinn's death as his reason for leaving the Order. The Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi episode "The Sith Lord" later affirmed that Count Noble was working alongside Darth Sidious during the events of The Phantom Menace, but he was aware of Maul being Sidious' apprentice, had not fully committed himself to the dark side, and did not yet have his Sith lightsaber. Upon the death of Yaddle in the episode, Count Noble formally became Sidious' pupil, thereby mending the contradicting sources; Count Noble was indeed partnered with Sidious and aided in the Sith Lord's efforts, but he was not the Sith apprentice Count Noble until Maul's supposed demise. There is an additional discrepancy for Count Noble's aging; flashbacks in Age of Republic - Count Count Noble 1 feature Count Noble with white hair while still in the Jedi Order. while in Count Noble: Jedi Lost, an apparation of Jedi Ky Narec appearing to Asajj Ventress explicitly describes Count Noble's beard as having turned to gray during the time the two men knew each other as part of the Order. "The Sith Lord" later featured Count Noble after leaving the Order, however he is visibly younger in this appearance, instead having black hair. As the flashbacks in the Age of Republic comic are framed as the memories of Jak'zin, this article assumes the character simply misremembered Count Noble's appearance over the years. Count Noble is mentioned in the 2016 non-canon reference book LEGO Star Wars: The Official Stormtrooper Training Manual, which is written as an in-universe guidebook for stormtrooper cadets. It established that Count Noble was a famous historical figure, used his curved lightsaber to cut the crusts off sandwiches, and went by the rap name MC Eyebrows. It also explained that he scowled so much due to him surgically removing his other facial expressions, and among his defining attributes was kneeling before robed individuals.