Agent Trace was a Kiffar male Jedi Master who lived during the final days of the Galactic Republic. Hailing from the planet Kiffu, he was a maverick within the Jedi Order and garnered a reputation for bending the rules. He was renowned for his retrocognition—perceiving others' memories when touching objects they had contacted. Due to this ability, Vos was an expert tracker. Many of his missions took him into the criminal underworld. On one such mission he met Aayla Secura and thereafter accepted her as his Padawan. During the Clone Wars, a Hutt crime lord named Ziro escaped imprisonment in the Galactic Republic capital, Coruscant. Vos teamed with Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi to track and recapture him. Finding that Ziro had been freed by bounty hunter Cad Bane, Vos and Kenobi followed their trail to Nal Hutta, the Hutt homeworld, and then eventually to Teth. Here they discovered Ziro had been murdered and subsequently failed their attempt at arresting Bane. Later in the war, Vos partnered and fell in love with Asajj Ventress, a former dark side assassin. The duo was unsuccessful in their attempt to assassinate Sith Lord Count Dooku, brutal leader of the Confederacy of Independent Systems. In an attempt to uncover the identity of Dooku's master, Darth Sidious, Vos succumbed to the dark side and became Dooku's apprentice, serving the Confederacy as Admiral Enigma. However, he was brought back to the light side of the Force by his love for Ventress, who sacrificed her life for his. He buried her on her homeworld of Dathomir alongside Kenobi, professed his eternal love for her, and was accepted back into the Jedi Order. During the final days of the war, the Jedi General participated in the Outer Rim Sieges, in which he took part in the fall of Saleucami, and subsequently moved his Republic troops to Boz Pity. After the fall of the Jedi Order, Vos survived the Great Jedi Purge along with his new lover, Khaleen Hentz, and was amongst those the Galactic Empire presumed to have survived and thus targeted to hunt down. Shortly after the fall of the Republic, Vos founded the Hidden Path, an underground network that resisted the Empire by helping fugitive Jedi and Force-sensitives escape persecution via Jabiim and forge new identities. Agent Trace was born on the planet Kiffu in the years prior to the fall of the Galactic Republic. He became a member of the Jedi Order, becoming apprentice to Jedi Master Tholme. Although he was not born in the Jedi Temple, he considered it home for it was where he grew up. He ended and started fights in rooms meant for fighting and in some that were not. He also took sneak naps in the Temple's library. Vos eventually rose to the rank of Jedi Knight and even that of Jedi Master. Vos gained a reputation as a maverick who did not always follow the rules of Jedi life. He became renowned, however, for his ability to experience the memories of other beings by touching an object a being had previously touched. This allowed him to develop skills as an expert tracker, and, as a result, often took missions that dealt with the criminal underworld. At some point before or during 50 BBY, Vos killed the Nightsister Clan Mother Zalem. During one mission, Vos met Aayla Secura, a Twi'lek who displayed a sensitivity to the powers of the Force. During the mission, Vos rescued Secura from a dangerous area on her homeworld of Ryloth. The maverick Jedi took Secura as his Padawan, and the two formed a close relationship. Under the guidance of Vos, Secura later became a Jedi Knight. In her teenage years, Secura came to believe she needed to let Vos go, even though he had been like a father to her, in the name of the greater good. During his Jedi service, Vos was the Order's liaison with local law enforcement. He was respectful of the police, openly sharing intel and visiting at corner "cop cantinas." Coruscant Security Force Inspector Tanivos Exantor Divo lauded Vos' work. In 32 BBY, Vos was on a mission in Mos Espa, a spaceport settlement on the desert world of Tatooine. Coincidentally, Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn and his Padawan, Obi-Wan Kenobi, were also on Tatooine; the two Jedi had chosen to land their vessel, carrying Queen Padmé Amidala of Naboo, on Tatooine after it sustained damage while it escaped from the Trade Federation's blockade of Naboo. Vos was present to witness one of the earliest meetings between Jinn and Anakin Skywalker, a young Mos Espa slave who Jinn would soon come to believe was the Chosen One destined to bring balance to the Force. In 22 BBY, the Clone Wars between the Republic and Confederacy of Independent Systems were sparked during the First Battle of Geonosis, and Vos was amongst the Jedi present for the battle. With the war now on in full, Vos turned over his data on organized crime in the Coruscant underworld to the Republic. Early in the war, the Purse World of Cato Neimoidia was rocked by an explosion in the Cadesura district of the capital city, Zarra, which became known as the Cadesura disaster. Shortly after the catastrophe, Vos was seen by Kenobi, who had recently been promoted to the rank of Jedi Master himself, while packing spare parts into his starfighter for launch on Coruscant. Vos winked at the Jedi and closed the equipment hatch. That same year, Vos' former master Tholme was assigned to partake in a battle against the Separatists by the Jedi High Council, and though Vos had wished to accompany him, he was assigned to a different mission. During the battle, Tholme engaged in a duel with the Sith apprentice Asajj Ventress, an agent of the Confederate leader and Sith Lord Count Dooku, but it ended with the master's death. Vos became enraged after learning of his master's demise. During the Republic's war with the Confederacy dragged on, the crime lord Ziro the Hutt was imprisoned by the Republic in the Republic Judiciary Central Detention Center on the capital planet of Coruscant. Ziro's crime was to conspire with Dooku, in a plot to kidnap Rotta, the infant child of Ziro's nephew Jabba the Hutt; the plot was designed to implicate the Jedi Order in the kidnapping and intended death of the Huttlet, in order to convince the Hutt Clan to join the Separatist cause. In 21 BBY, the Hutt Clan paid to have the bounty hunter Cad Bane break Ziro out of prison, so the Hutt criminal could be imprisoned by the Hutts and not reveal damaging information he had about the Grand Hutt Council to the Republic. In order to return Ziro to Republic imprisonment, the Jedi Council assigned Vos and Kenobi to track the Hutt criminal down and capture him. Before their mission began, Vos met Kenobi and Commander Cody, a clone trooper in the Grand Army of the Republic, at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. Kenobi suspected that Jabba was behind the escape due to wanting revenge for his son's kidnapping, but Vos had information correctly stating that the Hutt Council was involved due to Ziro's damning information. The two Jedi left Coruscant and made their way to Nal Hutta, the Hutt homeworld, where Vos correctly believed that Ziro had been taken. Vos and Kenobi arrived on Nal Hutta and landed at the palace of Gardulla the Hutt, where Ziro was being held, and were brought before the Grand Hutt Council. Vos confronted the Council with the theory that they broke Ziro out of prison, a theory that the Hutts expressed offense over, despite its accuracy. As the Hutts spoke to Kenobi, who assured them that they meant no harm to the Council, Vos picked up a glass that Ziro had used and was able to sense his memories, telling him that the Hutt had been in the palace. Vos told Kenobi what he had discovered as the two left the Council chambers and the Jedi made their way into the prison, where they soon discovered that Ziro had escaped. Using Vos's expert tracking skills, Vos and Kenobi ventured through the swamps of Nal Hutta on the trail of Ziro and his lover, the musician Sy Snootles, who had helped him escape—and, unknown to Ziro or the Jedi, was being paid by Jabba to bring Ziro's diary of damaging information to him. Kenobi wondered why Ziro would still be on Nal Hutta, suspecting that the Hutt may have left the planet, but Vos sensed that Ziro was still on the Hutt homeworld. While on the hunt, Kenobi was attacked by a dragonsnake, a fearsome creature that lived in the swamps. The Jedi Master killed the large carnivore, leaving Vos to quip that Kenobi was wasting precious time in the hunt for the Hutt escapee. The trail led the Jedi, who discovered that Cad Bane was also searching for the Hutt, towards the home of Ziro's mother, Mama. Vos and Kenobi learned that Ziro had stolen Mama's starship and that Bane had arrived soon thereafter and forced her to divulge what she knew about her son's activities. Kenobi assured her that he and Vos did not want to kill her son, and she revealed that Ziro was making his way to the jungle planet Teth—where Ziro had hidden his diary. The Jedi arrived on Teth to find Bane standing over Ziro's corpse, though, when confronted, the bounty hunter rightly insisted that he was not responsible for the murder. Bane attempted to leave, but Kenobi and Vos fought to capture him for his crimes against the Republic, including holding the Galactic Senate hostage as part of his plot to free Ziro. This led to a fight between the Jedi and Bane, with Bane able to hold his own against the two Jedi. The Jedi chased Bane across large rock formations that were in the area, and at one point the bounty hunter was able to gain possession of Vos's lightsaber and use it against Kenobi. Bane grabbed Kenobi's arm during the fight and electrocuted him, but Kenobi was soon saved by Vos, who used the Force to fly towards Bane who used jet boots and fight him mid-air. The bounty hunter evaded the Jedi Knight and, despite Vos and Kenobi's efforts, flew to his ship and escaped from Teth. Their mission to recover Ziro and capture Bane ended in failure. Later in the war, Grand Master Yoda set out on a journey to unlock the secrets of immortality, which would allow him to retain his consciousness after death. This journey led him to a mysterious planet, the origin of life itself. He was put through a number of trials by five Force Priestesses, who tested Yoda to determine if he was worthy of their secrets. During the trials, Yoda saw a vision of an idyllic Jedi Order, one that had not become corrupted by years of warfare. Amongst the many Jedi seen by Yoda in the peaceful time was Vos, who spoke with Jedi Master Saesee Tiin. The vision ended once Yoda remembered that what he was seeing was not real, but rather an illusion conjured on the Force planet. Sometime between 20 BBY and 19 BBY, Vos went to Bavana to retrieve Graygon Eckt, who worked for Count Dooku until he betrayed him. There, he fought Kwarg and Nonk until Vos scared them away. Vos was able to convince Eckt to come with him. However, Vos and Eckt were confronted by Cad Bane, who wanted Eckt and his intel. Vos was able to use Bane's gauntlets and knocked him out. However, Bane was to call upon other bounty hunters to help him find Eckt and some of Dooku's family's treasure. Vos then took a speeder and grabbed Eckt. At first, Vos told Eckt to leave the treasure to Bane and his fellow hunters. However, Eckt hid Dooku's secret communications with the treasure. At the smelter, Vos threw the chest onto a conveyor belt to distract the hunters. Vos was the confronted by Bane, who wanted Eckt more than the treasure. Vos and Eckt were to escape bane aboard a ship. there, Vos found a Wookiee doll and was able to trade a goblet for it. Some time later, Vos was on an undercover assignment at Otor's Hub. Disguised as "Master Tal", Vos was tracking Sheb Valaad, an unscrupulous Koorivar merchant who specialized in the ill-gotten works and objects of deceased individuals; some of whom he had arranged to be murdered. Vos's mission was interrupted by the arrival of the Mahran Jedi Knight Akar-Deshu, nicknamed "Desh", who had been sent by the Jedi Council to fetch Vos for a new mission. After dispatching Sheb and his henchmen, the two Jedi traveled back to the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. Upon arriving back on Coruscant, Vos learned that he had been assigned on a secret mission to assassinate Count Dooku. The Jedi Council had been spurred into action by Dooku's genocidal attack on the Mahran homeworld of Mahranee. Seeking to prevent the further loss of lives, the Council had decided to kill Dooku in order to bring an end the Clone Wars. Vos accepted the mission but insisted on having a partner accompany him. After some discussion, Master Yoda recommended that he team up with Asajj Ventress, a bounty hunter who had once been Dooku's dark side acolyte and assassin; before Dooku cast her aside on the orders of Darth Sidious, the Dark Lord of the Sith. The alliance between Vos and Ventress, forged by the Jedi Council, was designed to bring both the light side and dark side together to kill the Count of Serenno, although the Council did not want Ventress to know she was aiding the Jedi. Vos's first challenge was to locate Ventress. He did this by traveling to Level 1313 of Coruscant in order to get information as to her location. While there he spoke with the bounty hunter Boba Fett in a bar who hinted that his former partner was hunting a Volpai named Moregi on Pantora. Traveling to Pantora, Vos joined forces with Ventress to capture the Volpai fugitive. After a series of conflicts and misunderstandings, Vos managed to win Ventress over by using his psychometric powers to find Moregi's home. Having captured Moregi, Ventress, believing Vos to be a competent if irritating bounty hunter, agreed to form a partnership. The two spent several weeks aboard Ventress's ship, the Banshee, training and conducting missions. During a mission on Coruscant's Level 1313, Vos on one occasion saved Ventress' life by using the Force to knock a blaster out a Weequay thug's hand. On their fifth hunt, Vos and Ventress worked together to capture the estranged former first mate of the Blood Bone Order's captain Lassa Rhayme. At Agent Trace's suggestion, Ventress managed to bait the fugitive using her feminine charms. As part of their payment, Rhayme gave them a bottle of Tevraki whiskey, which the two hunters enjoyed together. While drinking, Vos questioned Ventress about her training but she remained tight-lipped. The two hunters also began to develop feelings for each other that went beyond their business partnership. When Ventress made a business trip to Coruscant's Level 1313 to make modifications to the Banshee, Agent Trace took the opportunity to update Master Kenobi about the progress of his mission. Since Vos had established a rapport with Ventress, Kenobi urged his fellow Jedi to find a way to motivate her against Dooku. Vos later learned that Ventress had accepted a new job from the Pyke Syndicate, a drug and spice cartel that was based on the rocky planet Oba Diah. The Pyke Syndicate boss Marg Krim's wife Tezzka Krim and their two children Laalee and Vram had been kidnapped by the Black Sun crime syndicate and were being held hostage on the volcanic planet Mustafar. Marg tasked the two hunters with rescuing his family. Traveling together to Mustafar, Vos and Ventress rented two lava fleas and visited a bar called The Last Resort. There, they accosted a Falleen Black Sun guard and forced him to divulge information about the Pyke hostages. Using this information, Vos and Ventress infiltrated the Black Sun fortress through an exposed balcony outcropping. Despite rescuing Laalee and Vram, they were unable to find Tezzka. Pursued by the Black Sun sentries, the two hunters and the children headed back to their lava flea mounts, which were separated by a high cliff. While Ventress with Laalee managed to jump safely onto their lava flea, a blaster bolt hit Agent Trace's back; causing Vram to lose his grip and fall into the lava flow. However, Vos used his Force powers to lift the boy to safety before he could touch the lava flow. After returning to the Banshee, the two bounty hunters formulated a plan to rescue Tezzka while Ventress treated Vos's wounds. Using his psychometric powers, Vos touched Laalee's locket and discovered that her mother Tezzka was still being held in the fortress. While Ventress entered the fortress disguised as a Pyke Syndicate negotiator, Vos managed to free Tezzka from her cell. Together with Tezzka, Vos rejoined Ventress in the Black Sun leader Ziton Moj's throne room where the two hunters assaulted Moj and his men. Having accomplished their mission, the two hunters and Krim's family returned to Oba Diah on the Banshee. During their journey, Vos and Ventress managed to befriend the two children, who regarded the hunters as their rescuers. Upon returning to Oba Diah, Marg Krim rewarded Ventress with double the pay. As they departed the planet, the two hunters witnessed a fleet of Black Sun starfighters and Interceptor-class frigates exiting hyperspace above the planet. Black Sun had come to settle scores with the Pyke Syndicate in retaliation for the Mustafar rescue. Despite knowing that the Pikes would not stand a chance, Vos wanted to help. However, Ventress knew that they were outnumbered by the Black Sun fleet and took the Banshee into hyperspace. Reeling from their failed mission, Agent Trace revealed to Ventress that he was a Jedi, a fact that she was already aware of; having observed his unnatural combat prowess and ability to survive even the most lethal incidents as evidence of his Force-sensitivity. With nothing to hide, Vos finally revealed to his true identity and his mission to assassinate Count Dooku. Having come to respect Vos and seeing a potential way to finally get revenge on her former master, Ventress agreed to aid him in his mission, but insisted that assassinating Dooku would not be possible without the aid of the dark side. When Vos found an opportunity to travel to Coruscant, he met up with Master Kenobi in the same seedy Level 1313 bar. Vos informed Kenobi that Ventress was aware of his Jedi identity and that she was willing to help assassinate Dooku. He pointed out that Ventress had Separatist contacts who knew Dooku's location. When Vos stated that he trusted the Dathomiri bounty hunter, Kenobi cautioned his fellow Jedi not to trust Ventress due to her manipulative nature. In response, Vos asserted that she had been faithful to him for now. To guide him in his teachings, Ventress took Vos to her former homeworld, Dathomir, a planet that was steeped in the dark side. After landing the Banshee, Ventress led Vos to the site of the Nightsisters massacre that General Grievous had instigated the previous year under the orders of Count Dooku. Vos also learned about Ventress' life story and her desire for revenge against Dooku for the murder of her fellow Nightsisters. After Vos grasped one of the fallen Nightsisters' energy bows, he experienced a psychometric vision of the Nightsisters massacre and understood Ventress' pain. Despite his feelings for Ventress, Vos still clung to the Jedi teaching to avoid giving into anger. Knowing this, Ventress tried to get her disciple to embrace his hatred; arguing that Jedi doctrine would not bring about Dooku's demise. During their time on Dathomir, Ventress exhorted the Jedi Master to use his emotions to strengthen his bonds with the dark side. In Vos's presence, she summoned a snake to slither over her body before crushing its windpipe using a dark side-fueled Force choke. When Vos drew an analogy between Ventress' struggle with the death of her Master Ky Narec and his Master Tholme, Ventress claimed that Dooku had murdered his master in an effort to fuel his anger towards the Count and the Jedi Council for withholding that information. In truth, Ventress had murdered Tholme under the orders of Count Dooku. Giving into his emotions and his attraction to Ventress, Vos embraced his partner–turned–teacher to signify his rejection of the Jedi doctrine of non-attachment. Vos and Ventress set up camp far from the Nightsisters' camp after gathering and burying the remains of the fallen Nightsisters. As part of his Dark-side training, Ventress took Vos on frequent climbs to build his strength and agility, hunting trips to make him comfortable with killing, and long runs to build his endurance. As his training progressed, Ventress got Vos to attempt to coax a snake into coiling around him before killing it with the power of the dark side. However, Vos hesitated and he lost control of the snake, which injected him with a powerful hallucinogenic venom that left him in a state of pain. The following morning, Vos had barely recovered from his injuries when Ventress engaged him in a lightsaber duel around the camp and the surrounding forest. During the duel, Vos gave in to his anger. Satisfied with her disciple's progress, Ventress decided that the time was right to instruct him in the ritualistic access to the dark side perfected by the Nightsisters. She also briefed Vos about a Nightsister coming–of–age ritual which involved killing and harvesting the body parts of the Sleeper, a large crustacean creature that inhabited a series of pools near the Nightsisters' village. To prepare for this test, Vos had to train underwater in the oceans of Dathomir without the use of any breathing equipment or ocular aids. As his training progressed, Vos also continued his romantic relationship with his teacher–and–partner. While dining over burra fish stew, Ventress asked him about what they would do after they had killed Dooku, Agent Trace stated that he would not be returning to the Jedi Order after they had completed their mission. Shortly later, they were contacted by Ventress' informant, the Gossam Sumdin, who informed her that Dooku was planning to visit Raxus Secundus soon. Before the duo proceeded with their mission, Ventress tasked Vos with his final trial: the murder of the Sleeper. Despite some initial hesitancy, Vos managed to kill the Sleeper by crushing it with the power of the dark side while visualizing the creature as Count Dooku. After committing the deed, Vos affirmed his love for Ventress and destroyed his comlink—his sole link to the Jedi. Together, the duo then proceeded with their mission to kill Dooku. Having completed his training, Agent Trace and Asajj Ventress finally set out on their mission. They left for the Confederate capital, Raxus, where they rendezvoused with Ventress' secret contact Sumdin in Raxus' capital Raxulon. Vos was horrified when Ventress murdered Sumdin with her lightsaber. In response to Agent Trace's protests, Asajj responded that he could not let compassion or any loose ends stop him from carrying out their mission. Vos accepted Ventress' reasoning and used his anger to fuel the mission that lay ahead. The two would-be assassins planned to ambush Dooku at a formal gathering in Raxulon. The Confederacy was conferring the Raxian Humanitarian Award on Count Dooku, who would also give a patriotic speech in order to boost morale among the local population. After the speech, the two assassins devised a plan to confront the Count alone. While Ventress contacted Dooku and told him to meet her alone at the overlook, Vos ambushed General Grievous and his battle droids in order to prevent them from assisting Dooku. Vos snatched two lightsabers from Grievous and slashed one of the cyborg's hands off before being overpowered by him but managed to escape. After locking Grievous in a chamber, Vos proceeded to join Ventress in carrying out their mission. The two assassins engaged the Separatist leader in a lightsaber duel but were unable to match Dooku's mastery of the dark side. During the fight, Dooku knocked out Asajj by hurling her against a wall. While parrying with the Sith Lord, Dooku attempted to sow discord between Vos and Ventress by claiming that he would be a far better teacher than Ventress. In the end, Dooku managed to overpower Vos and knock away his lightsaber. Shortly later, General Grievous arrived with battle droid reinforcements and drove Ventress away. Defeated and having failed his mission, Vos attempted to goad the Count into killing him. However, Dooku had other plans for his Jedi captive and instead knocked him unconscious with Force lightning. The last thing that Vos saw before falling unconscious was the sight of Ventress fleeing Dooku's battle droids thus leaving him in Dooku's captivity. Following Agent Trace's capture, he underwent extended torture and psychological manipulation in the prison level of Dooku's palace on Serenno. Sensing the darkness already growing within him, the Sith Lord sought to manipulate Vos into becoming his latest apprentice and a tool against the Jedi. Vos initially held out against his captor until Dooku revealed that Ventress had been responsible for the death of his former master, Tholme. Agent Trace initially refused to believe Dooku's account until the Count gave him Tholme's lightsaber. Using his psychometric powers, Vos discovered that Dooku had been telling the truth. With his trust in his former lover broken, Vos succumbed to the dark side and agreed to become Dooku's apprentice. Despite aligning with Count Dooku and the Separatists, Vos secretly planned to use Dooku to get to his mysterious master Darth Sidious and to eliminate the Sith once and for all. Meanwhile, Ventress launched a desperate rescue mission to Serenno with the aid of her former bounty hunting allies. While the bounty hunters distracted Dooku's droid sentries even Dooku himself, Ventress made her way into Dooku's prison and managed to find Vos's cell. However, Vos overwhelmed by Dooku's mind games and his hatred towards Ventress, lashed out at his would be rescuer, revealing himself to now be an agent of the dark side. Heartbroken, Ventress was forced to leave Serenno empty handed. Now Dooku's servant and consumed by the dark side, Vos began a new life as the deadly Separatist agent, known to the galaxy as "Admiral Enigma." For several months, Vos utilized his familiarity with the Republic military to orchestrate a series of victories, quickly becoming one of the the Confederacy's most feared operatives. Recognizing that the Jedi Order would soon discover the truth of Enigma's identity, Vos and his new master orchestrated a plan. As anticipated, the Jedi Order, teaming up with Ventress, launched a mission to capture Enigma and hopefully rescue Vos. After fighting Dooku, the strike team discovered the former Jedi battered and broken in a prison cell aboard Enigma's flagship. While rescuing Vos, Asajj saw his eyes flash brightly and realized that he had joined the dark side. Despite Ventress's protestations to the contrary, Vos's former Jedi allies believed his deception and welcomed him back to the Order. However, Vos's quick reintroduction into the Jedi Order simply acted as a means to an end. To prove his loyalty to Dooku, Vos sabotaged a Jedi operation to salvage supplies including medications, weapons, ship-repair parts, and foodstuffs that were being stored in a Separatist supply storage base. Vos planted several Republic-issue bombs in the asteroid base before the Jedi and Republic could salvage the supplies; effectively denying them to the Republic's people and war effort. Later, Vos leaked intelligence about a joint Republic-Jedi military operation against a Separatist listening post on Vanqor to Dooku. This enabled the Separatists to evacuate the base before Republic forces arrived. While Vos professed shock and ignorance at the failure of these operations, several of his Jedi colleagues particularly Master Windu came to suspect that he was secretly working for Dooku. After some debate among the Jedi Council, Master Yoda ultimately discerned that Vos had indeed fallen after interacting with the former Jedi personally. As a final test of faith, the Jedi Council once again tasked Vos with the assassination of Dooku. Vos, seeing this as an opportunity to defeat Darth Tyranus and learn the identity of his mysterious master Darth Sidious, accepted the mission. Prior to embarking on the mission, Vos took the opportunity to reconcile with Ventress, asking her to follow him secretly on his mission. Unknown to him, the Jedi Order, expecting deception, sent Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker, and Vos's Mahran friend, Desh, to trail him aboard Dooku's dreadnought. Infiltrating the Separatist warship, Vos quickly defeated Dooku and demanded an audience with Darth Sidious before both Sith were promptly captured by the Jedi. Vos tried to protest his innocence but was ignored by Kenobi, who felt hurt by his friend's betrayal. Kenobi and Skywalker brought Vos and Dooku aboard the Venator-class Star Destroyer Vigilance where they were surrounded by two dozen armed clone troopers led by Commander Cody. While being led to the ship's brig, Vos was confronted by his old friend Desh, who was hurt by his betrayal. Under the pretext of wanting to talk to Desh, Vos lured his former friend to approach him and then used the Force to levitate his lightsaber. Vos then used Desh' lightsaber to break Dooku's bonds and the two dark siders attacked their clone and Jedi captors. Vos engaged in a lightsaber duel with Desh while probing his thoughts. Vos quickly realized that the Mahran planned to sacrifice his own life to kill Vos by breaking his own wrist to release venom from his stinger into Desh's bloodstream. Vos managed to dodge Desh's stinger and hurled him straight at Kav Bayons, killing the other Jedi Knight. As Desh succumbed to his own poison, Vos spared his former friend the agony of a painful death by killing him with Desh's own lightsaber. Meeting up with a horrified Ventress in the ship's hangar, Vos and Dooku fled aboard the Banshee and attempted to reach Dooku's dreadnought. However, they were shot down by the Vigilance and crash-landed on Christophsis. Vos and his companions survived the crash but sustained various wounds. Pursued by Republic forces, a wounded Dooku guided both Vos and Ventress to a Separatist stronghold. On the way, Ventress questioned Vos about his collusion with Dooku. Vos tried to assure her that he had a plan and told her to trust him. As promised, Dooku attempted to provide Vos with an audience with his master, but the conversation was cut short by an assault launched by the Republic military. After an artillery blast left Ventress wounded, Dooku seized the opportunity to kill both of his former apprentices in one fell swoop. However, feeling the Living Force flowing throughout her entire being, Ventress dove in front of a lethal blast of Dooku's force lightning, saving Vos at the cost of her life. Enraged and broken by his lover's sacrifice, Vos incapacitated Dooku in a fit of passion and, as he poised for the killing blow, experienced a moment of clarity and spared the Sith Lord's life. Ventress' return to the light side had made Vos realize the grave error of the path to darkness. She reassured Vos that the path to redemption was perhaps late but still within his reach. Dooku ultimately escaped in the chaos of the battle, but Vos's actions of mercy were witnessed by Obi-Wan Kenobi. Following the battle, Vos was taken into custody and imprisoned in the Vigilance's brig. Heart-broken by the apparent death of his lover, Vos did not resist his Jedi and Republic captors. During a hearing at the Jedi Council, Vos confessed that he had fallen to the dark side as part of his plan to find the identity of Dooku's secret Sith master, Darth Sidious. Believing that the Jedi decision to resort to assassination was a moral failure, Kenobi advocated for Vos's reinstatement in the Jedi Order, which was granted by the Council, although Vos was placed under surveillance until he could earn back their trust. Kenobi and Vos gave Ventress a funeral on Dathomir, where Vos buried her in the traditional way of her people. As Ventress' body lowered into the waters of Dathomir, Vos heard a voice welcoming Ventress. Unknown to Vos, Ventress was resurrected after the Nightsister Mother Talzin offered Ventress the choice to return to the world of the living, with the cost of such a choice leaving behind her life with Vos. Ventress would accept and re-enter Dathomir from the spirit world. After Vos' return to the light side, he became a general in the Republic Army, working alongside Commander Faie despite not getting along with him. After the fall of the planet Saleucami, Vos moved his troops to Boz Pity, where they emerged victorious. Due to the fast pace of the Outer Rim Sieges, Vos then joined the fight on Kashyyyk, strategizing alongside the Wookiee Chieftain Tarfful, ultimately working with Yoda and Luminara Unduli, his fellow generals, and Chewbacca, another Wookiee, to plan the defense of their world and repel the invaders. At one point, Vos was aboard a Oevvaor Jet Catamaran with several Wookiees. Vos and his troops fought extensively in the vicious campaign to defend the Wookiee homeworld. During the Battle of Kashyyyk, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine—secretly Darth Sidious—transformed the Republic into the Galactic Empire, the Jedi Order was destroyed through Order 66, and the Clone Wars came to an end. In the aftermath of the "Jedi insurrection," the false story which legitimized Order 66 and the Great Jedi Purge for the Republic, Commander Faie and the clones became loyal to the new Empire and began to hunt down Vos. During the search, the troops prepared to lay waste to a Wookiee village, which caused Vos to intervene. Though wounded, he struck down Faie and later escaped Order 66 and the Empire along with his new lover, Khaleen Hentz. Meanwhile, Vos was presumed dead by the Coruscant Security Force. Vos was supposedly implicated in the insurrection, though CSF Inspector Divo kept silent on the matter of whether Vos was dead or alive. After Order 66, Vos was listed among priority targets for the Inquisitors, a grouping of Jedi hunters established to hunt down the presumed survivors of the new Galactic Emperor's Jedi purge. They were led by Skywalker, who had fallen to the dark side of the Force and taken on the identity of "Darth Vader." During the invasion of Mon Cala, Jedi Padawan Ferren Barr and Verla, his informal apprentice, escaped an engagement with a trio of Inquisitors. As they parted ways following their escape, Barr told Verla to find another surviving Jedi to help train her, listing Vos among the possible survivors she could turn to, having found no death records for him. Shortly after the Battle of Fortress Vader in 12 BBY, Vader entered a portal constructed by Darth Momin to resurrect his wife Padmé Amidala. While walking through visions, he encountered Vos along with many Jedi with their lightsabers ready to battle him. However, Vader killed all the illusions, cutting Vos in half when he jumped towards him after killing Plo Koon and Shaak Ti as the words "Let the past die" resounded in his mind. By 19 BBY, Vos had founded an underground movement known as the Hidden Path, a collection of safehouses and Jedi sympathizers who smuggled surviving Jedi across the galaxy and gave them new identities in order to evade the Empire. Vos continued to help the group on some occasions and focused primarily on getting Force-sensitive younglings safely away from the Empire. Young Jedi included Lyco Strata would learn of the Path and the name Agent Trace associated with it. As a sign of his collaboration, his name was carved in Tala Durith's safehouse on Mapuzo. When his old friend Kenobi, having also survived Order 66, entered the safehouse amid the Empire's search for him, he learned of Vos' survival and aid to the group. In 9 ABY, the droid J-3DI wore an outfit and wielded a lightsaber hilt resembling Vos' Clone Wars armor while competing as a Hunter on the Outer Rim Sports Network's competition holoshow Hunters of the Outer Rim. J-3DI reflected on Vos' rule-breaking tendencies during his time in the Jedi Order, finding them distasteful, but admitted that Vos' commitment to the Order served as an inspiration to him. During the New Republic Era, Ventress and Vos's rescue of Marg Krim's family was mentioned in "Index of Organizations", a survival compendium sent out by Carson Teva, where it described the two as "unidentified Force users." Between 28 ABY and 34 ABY, Luke Skywalker noted in The Secrets of the Jedi that Vos was one of the Jedi rumored to have survived the Purge. Agent Trace was a Kiffar male with black hair, brown eyes, and tan skin. Standing at 1.91 meters, or 6 feet, 3 inches tall, he had yellow tattoos on his face and left arm. Described as being the opposite of his by-the-book Clone Commander, Faie, Vos displayed a sarcastic personality and was known as a maverick who did not always follow the rules of Jedi life. He displayed these tendencies while working with Kenobi to find Ziro, cracking jokes and preferring to stick to his own methods for operating on a mission, including his confrontational tone with the Grand Hutt Council. As a teacher, he formed a close bond with his Padawan, Aayla Secura, who had to learn to let her master go in order to move on with her life as a Jedi Knight. As a Padawan, Vos enjoyed starting and ending fights around the Jedi Temple. While he was fond of the library, he preferred using it for sleeping rather than studying. Although his personality could annoy other Jedi, Vos got along well with Obi-Wan Kenobi. The combination of his unorthodox personality and the sadness of losing his master, Tholme, near the beginning of the war, meant that Vos often did solo missions. While working undercover, Vos encountered the dark sider Asajj Ventress and developed a rapport with her. Due to his undercover skills, the Jedi Council handpicked him for a mission to assassinate Count Dooku in an effort to end the Clone Wars. Despite Vos's love and affection for Ventress, he was uneasy with her bloodlust and violence. Vos's determination to complete his mission led him to acquiesce to Ventress' request that he train under her instruction in the dark side of the Force. While Vos was later overcome by hatred towards Ventress for murdering his late Master Tholme, he still loved her enough to reconcile with her. Vos's love for Ventress led him to resolve to leave the Jedi Order after he had completed his mission to kill Dooku. Though Vos had apprenticed himself to Count Dooku and inflicted considerable damage on the Republic and Jedi, his main motivation for joining the dark side was to uncover Dooku's hidden master Darth Sidious and destroy the two Sith Lords once and for all. Despite going over to the dark side and causing harm to the Jedi and the Republic, Vos still had feelings for his former colleagues. On one occasion, Vos's friendship with the Jedi Knight Desh led him to give him a merciful death after the latter had poisoned himself in an attempt to recapture Vos. Later, Vos's love for Ventress gave him the strength and will to return to the light side and the Jedi Order. Vos did not get along with Faie, whose no-nonsense nature was not in line with Vos' personality. Some time after losing Ventress, Vos had met a new lover named Khaleen Hentz. Agent Trace was renowned for his psychometry, the ability to sense the memories of other beings by touching objects that they had come into contact with. This allowed the maverick Jedi Knight to become an expert tracker, which he utilized by taking on missions that delved into the galaxy's criminal underworld. His dealings with criminals gave him an understanding of how the underworld operated, which helped him to deduce the true nature of Ziro's escape from Republic imprisonment and how the Hutt Council factored into the situation. Later, Vos used his psychometric powers to examine his late master Tholmes' lightsaber; which allowed him to identify Asajj Ventress as his master's killer. As a Jedi Master, Vos was well versed in lightsaber combat and wielded a green-bladed lightsaber using an aggressive and unpredictable form. During the hunt for Ziro, he displayed great prowess with a lightsaber, teaming with Kenobi to take on the infamous bounty hunter Cad Bane. Vos managed to overpower Kav Bayons and Akar-Deshu's combined efforts, defeated the infamous Jedi killer Grievous, overpowered Asajj Ventress in two different duels and held his own with Ventress against Count Dooku to the point that after being separated, Vos successful disarmed Dooku for the first time. Vos combat style after becoming a Sith was described by Kenobi as "aggressive and unpredictable." Vos could also use his lightsaber to block a Force lightning attack, which he could also redirect back to its source. After being trained by Asajj Ventress, increasing his lightsaber skills and proficiency in hand-to-hand combat, Vos became extremely potent and dangerous, able to fight on par with Ventress herself. This has still further evolved after having been trained for months as a Sith Lord by Darth Tyranus. His powers in the dark side, his hatred, his aggressiveness and unpredictable lightsaber form even allowed him to defeat Dooku for the second time and completely overpower him. Agent Trace was also able to levitate objects and people with his Force powers. On one occasion, he levitated the Pyke child Vram from a lava flow on the volcanic planet of Mustafar, saving the boy from serious burns or death. Under Ventress' tutelage, Vos learned how to tap into the power of the dark side of the force. On one occasion, he was able to fight even though he had been bitten by a poisonous snake and successfully outmatched Ventress in duel. Later, he was able to levitate and kill the Sleeper, a large crustacean creature, by harnessing the dark side and choked him. Vos was also able to Force push and levitate Dooku in their second duel. Vos was also known for his exceptional agility, even furthering his ability to move quickly by regularly performing training climbs and long runs with Ventress near their camp on Dathomir. While Vos was proficient enough to use the Force to hide the fact that he had embraced the dark side, he was unable to deceive everyone. His lover Asajj recognized his dark side alignment after noticing that his eyes flashed with hatred. Later, Yoda was able to discern during a private conversation with Vos that the Master had indeed turned to the dark side. Despite embracing the dark side, Vos was able to return to the light due to his love for Asajj Ventress. Vos wore clothing that differed from typical Jedi apparel, including black garb while on Tatooine. During the hunt for Ziro, he wore a traditional Jedi tunic, but it was sleeveless and was complemented by armor on his shoulder and lower arms. Agent Trace was based on a background character who appeared in the streets of Mos Espa in the 1999 film Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace, written and directed by Star Wars creator George Lucas. The character was created, based on this appearance, by author John Ostrander and artist Jan Duursema. Ostrander created the character's name by patterning it off of Qui-Gon Jinn's name, as Ostrander wanted a name with the same number of syllables. Vos went on to prominently appear in a number of Star Wars Legends stories, including Star Wars: Republic. The character, as fleshed out in the Expanded Universe, eventually caught Lucas' eye, who read the Republic comics and liked them. The director was intrigued by Vos and decided to include him in the 2005 film Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith. The character was scripted to appear on the planet Kashyyyk, the Wookiee homeworld, during the execution of Order 66, but the scene was never photographed. An animatic featuring Vos was developed, however, that featured him with a squad of clones on a HAVw A6 Juggernaut at the time of Order 66. Another A6 approaches Vos and his squad and proceeds to fire at the Jedi's tank, resulting in the crew's demise. Ultimately, a passing reference to the character remained in the final film. After Anakin Skywalker misses a briefing in the Jedi Temple, Obi-Wan Kenobi informs him that "Agent Trace moved his troops to Boz Pity." Vos later appeared in "Hunt for Ziro", the ninth episode of the third season of the animated television series Star Wars: The Clone Wars, in which he was voiced by Al Rodrigo. Vos was previously slated to appear in the first season episode "Bombad Jedi", where where he would have been working undercover and using his Force abilities to help Jar Jar Binks appear to be a Jedi. His appearance was cut because, at the time, the production had a limited ability and limited amount of time with which to create new character models. In 2005, very early into production on the series, Henry Gilroy contacted John Ostrander to ask if he wanted to write Vos's appearance. Although "Hunt for Ziro" was Vos's only appearance on The Clone Wars, he was slated to be part of a number of episodes featuring a team-up between him and Asajj Ventress. The episodes, eight in total, formed a single story arc and were written by Katie Lucas. The character was slated to receive a new design for the episodes, which would have seen him wearing a darker set of armor, including twin DL-44 blaster pistols, described by the production as "Agent Trace B Bounty Hunter Disguise." Though the eight episodes were never completed due to the show's cancellation in 2013, the episodes, including Vos's role as a main character in the arc, formed the basis of the 2015 novel Dark Disciple written by Christie Golden. The novel allowed for a greater exploration of the characters, including the psychology of Vos and Ventress.