The Lady Seven was a female Mirialan Inquisitor who served the Galactic Empire and operated as a Jedi hunter in the years before the Battle of Yavin. She was tasked with tracking down Ahsoka Tano, a prominent figure in the rebellion against the Empire, by the Sith Lord Darth Vader. Following the death of the Grand Inquisitor, the Lady Seven sought to replace him as the leader of the Inquisitorius. In the fourth year before the Battle of Yavin, the Lady Seven came into direct conflict with the Spectres. She fought them on many occasions: aboard an Old Republic medical station, in Hammertown on the planet Takobo in an attempt to kidnap Force-sensitive children, and on Garel in an attempt to destroy the rebel fleet. The Lady Seven was ultimately killed by Maul on Malachor. The individual who became known as the Lady Seven was born on the planet Mirial and later found by the Jedi. She was trained by Grand Master Yoda. At one point, the Mirialan trained with Jedi Master Aayla Secura. She eventually rose to become a Jedi Master. The Mirialan individual survived Order 66 while the Galactic Republic was reorganized into the Galactic Empire. At some point after, the Mirialan Jedi survivor was forced to become an Inquisitor. The Empire broke the survivor, turning her into the Lady Seven and assigning her the mission of hunting down and eliminating any Jedi who survived Order 66. To accomplish this, she and her colleagues were trained by The Grand Inquisitor in The Works, but soon fell under the command of Darth Vader when Darth Sidious first demonstrated the Inquisitorius to Vader in the Inquisitorius Headquarters, who continued their training in the ways of the dark side of the Force. In doing so, she was taught the lesson of loss by unpleasant methods by Vader as all inquisitors in the Works were. While training with a training remote at the pit, the Lady Seven was met with one of the most recent members of the Inquisitorius, former Jedi Knight Iskat Akaris, who claimed to not yet have a full name within their ranks. Deciding to spar against each other, the Lady Seven dueled the new Inquisitor, at first going easy on her until Iskat used to force to throw a group of small Spiderbats at her, with the Lady Seven slicing them up before chasing the new Inquisitor across the pit. Having her blade at Iskat's throat, the Lady Seven dropped her lightsaber after feeling the excruciating pain on her hand, a result of the new Inquisitor using the force to bend and twist her fingers to end their duel. After the sparring was stopped by the Grand Inquisitor, the Lady Seven had to have her hand wrapped up in a Bacta cast for several days in order to heal. Witnessing Iskat used Spiderbats against her gave the Lady Seven the idea of using small droids that could assist her in battle and during missions. One night, she sent three ID9 seeker droids to Iskat's chamber in order to attack her as revenge for what she did to her hand during their last fight. The Lady Seven's droids electrocuted Iskat to the point where one of her hearts briefly stopped, the new Inquisitor was then put into a Bacta tank for over a week to recover, the Lady Seven came to visit her around this time to both mock and thank her for the idea she gave her. When Iskat was well enough to return to training, the Lady Seven met her again in the pit along with the Fifth Brother and Ninth Sister. She witnessed her dueling the Fifth Brother and took great joy in seeing them fight until Darth Vader arrived, challenging Iskat in order to test her strength, with the Lady Seven eager to see her fail and mocking her after the Sith Lord broke Iskat's hand. Following the hunt for Eeth Koth, the Lady Seven celebrated the death of the former Jedi alongside the other Inquisitors. Later, she, taken aback, witnessed Vader igniting his lightsaber, attempting to strike down Thirteenth Sister, an Inquisitor he suspected was a traitor. Tualon Yaluna tried to stop him, and the Dark Lord of the Sith hunted and killed the pair. The Lady Seven was assigned with the Ninth Sister to hunt Jedi Knight Tensu Run. The two went to Glee Anselm, where they disguised themselves as gamblers. During a gambling game, she claimed an alien named Eorgus ran into the Jedi, which the Lady Seven stabbed his hand with a knife before attacking the others with her knife and lightsaber, while the Ninth Sister used two Bryar pistols. After Eorgus told them the Jedi was in an abandoned Jedi temple in the deadlands in Outer Rim, the Lady Seven believed him, despite the Ninth Sister being skeptical. Then, the Mirialan beheaded Eorgus. The two Inquisitors reported to Vader who reminded them to not to fail him but allowed them to proceed with their plan when they said that working together will help them succeed where the Fifth Brother failed. When Run and Pan Delesec exit the temple and went to a nearby market, the Lady Seven unleashed a group of ID9 seeker droids that poured a toxic gas into the crowd, causing chaos among the group. After the two Jedi pacify the mob of people, the Lady Seven and the Ninth Sister manage to corner them. The four would begin to fight, with Delesec fighting the Ninth Sister and Run fighting the Lady Seven. The battle ending with Delesec slashing the Ninth Sister's left leg and Run slashing the side of the Lady Seven's torso. Standing victorious above the kneeling Lady Seven, Run declared to let the Sisters return to their master and expressed interest in meeting their master. After the death of the Grand Inquisitor, the Lady Seven became a vital commander among the ranks of the Inquisitorius and sought to ultimately replace the Grand Inquisitor. In 4 BBY, the Lady Seven was sent to hunt down Ahsoka Tano, Kanan Jarrus, and Ezra Bridger. She traveled to an abandoned Republic medical station, where, one of her ID9 seeker droids reported seeing the rebel Sabine Wren. Meanwhile, another proceeded to knock out Chopper. As Bridger and Sabine searched the medical station for supplies, they found themselves standing face-to-face with the Lady Seven. Ezra mistook the Inquisitor for a bounty hunter; she revealed her true nature to the boy by activating her lightsaber. Outmatched, Ezra and Sabine fled, only to run into their attacker's accomplice, the Fifth Brother. With the help of her "little pets," the Lady Seven succeeded in capturing Ezra and remarked on the nobility of his sacrifice to let Sabine escape. At that moment, the Fifth Brother attempted to murder Bridger on the spot but the Sister deflected it lazily with her own blade whilst commenting on her surprise at seeing him there as well. When the Brother protested at her having stolen his kill, she derided him for his short-sightedness and sent him off with two of her droids to capture Wren so she could use him as bait to lure out the other rebels. The Lady Seven brought Ezra to the medical station's command center to slowly break him by using psychological tactics, a combination of threats, taunts and Force powers, including an attempted mind probe. Ezra refused to break and fired back with a few taunts of his own, vaguely impressing her but also causing her to lose patience as he continued to resist. When the Brother returned with an unconscious Sabine, he asked if she had made any progress in getting the boy to talk, but she refused to answer directly to cover her embarrassment. Ezra and Sabine were then contacted by the Lasat rebel Garazeb Orrelios, who was using the pseudonym "Commander Meiloorun" and told them to rendezvous with him at Bay Six, as well as to keep their "chins up." The Lady Seven saw her chance to destroy the rebels once and for all. At Bay Six, Zeb ambushed the Lady Seven and Fifth Brother from aboard the Phantom, allowing Ezra and Sabine to escape onto the ship. The Inquisitors used telekinesis to pull the rebel ship towards them in an attempt to prevent its escape, with the Sister also using her powers to close the hangar doors. Sabine started to shoot at the Fifth Brother, forcing him to break off to deflect the shots. Unable to hold the ship herself, the Lady Seven was almost pulled out into the vacuum of space as the Phantom escaped with the rebels onboard. Realizing she had failed to complete her objective in the presence of another Inquisitor, the Lady Seven became flustered. Following their failure to capture the rebels aboard the Republic medical station, the Lady Seven and Fifth Brother boarded a passenger ship above the planet Chandel to seize a Force-sensitive infant named Alora. They succeeded and killed everyone aboard the ship, save for the child's grandmother, Darja. This act attracted the attention of the Spectres and Ahsoka Tano. The Lady Seven next traveled with the Fifth Brother to Takobo to capture an Ithorian infant named Pypey. They confronted the child's mother, Oora, and when they learned their target had been sent away in the care of a droid, they smashed all of the furniture in Oora's home. In the streets of Takobo, the Lady Seven and Fifth Brother managed to intercept the droid that had left with Pypey; the child was nowhere in sight, for he had been taken by Zeb. The Lady Seven and Fifth Brother pursued Zeb to a nearby apartment; they entered it only for Ezra to escape with Pypey. After failing to lure out their quarry, the Lady Seven and Fifth Brother faced the Jedi Kanan Jarrus and Zeb. The pair of Inquisitors bested the two rebels, who escaped on a speeder. The Lady Seven and Fifth Brother gave chase on a speeder of their own; after another skirmish, the Inquisitors cornered their foes outside the local spaceport. The Lady Seven and Fifth Brother successfully overpowered Kanan, Ezra, and Zeb once again. However, before the Inquisitors could finish the trio of rebels off and retrieve Pypey, Ahsoka Tano appeared before them. Surprised but delighted by this, the Lady Seven and Fifth Brother engaged their former Jedi prey in combat while Ezra, Kanan, and Zeb escaped with Pypey aboard the Phantom. However, it was quickly shown that both Lady Seven and Fifth Brother were no match for Ahsoka, who easily overpowered the Brother and knocked him out before suddenly kneeling in apparent surrender; leaping in for the kill, the Lady Seven was flabbergasted when the Togruta grabbed her spinning lightsaber, deactivated it using the Force, and tossed it aside before telekinetically throwing her against a nearby pillar. Ahsoka claimed she had beaten the Lady Seven, but the Inquisitor laughed maniacally as Imperial reinforcements arrived in the form of stormtroopers and a few Imperial Troop Transports. While the Lady Seven intended to capture Ahsoka and please Darth Vader, the rebel commander managed to make a getaway with her comrades and the successfully reclaimed Force-sensitive infants. Adding insult to injury, the Lady Seven and Fifth Brother discovered that the Spectres had destroyed their TIE Advanced fighters. The Inquisitors were elated, however, when one of the Lady Seven's droid "pets" revealed that the enemy was hiding on the planet Garel. Following their skirmish with the rebels on Takabo, the Lady Seven and the Fifth Brother tracked Kanan and Ezra to the planet Bilzen during their Jedi training and dueled them in the icy caverns of Bilzen. Both of the Inquisitors lost and Kanan and Ezra escaped. Together with Agent Kallus and Admiral Kassius Konstantine, the Lady Seven and Fifth Brother attacked the Phoenix Cell, of which the Spectres were a part, on Garel. The pair of Inquisitors faced Ezra and Kanan in a hangar bay. The Lady Seven managed to goad Ezra into attacking her, but Kanan shut a blast door that was between them, thus preventing a fight from taking place. The crew of the Ghost then took advantage of this delay and escaped into Garel's atmosphere. On the planet Oosalon, the Lady Seven and Fifth Brother engaged Kanan and Ezra in a lightsaber duel; overpowered, the Jedi managed to escape their attackers on the back of a tibidee. The Lady Seven and Fifth Brother were able to track Kanan and Ezra to Lothal; via one of the Lady Seven's seeker droids, they discovered an ancient Jedi Temple on the planet's surface. The pair of Inquisitors used the Force to summon the temple from under the ground, though it put up a fight; lightsabers at the ready, the duo entered its depths only to be attacked by the manifestations of several Jedi Temple Guards, including one who resembled the Grand Inquisitor. In the aftermath of this encounter, the Lady Seven and Fifth Brother found themselves in the presence of Darth Vader. The Sith Lord coldly stated that the rebels' growing power would be their undoing. The Lady Seven was ordered by Darth Vader to travel to Malachor with the Fifth Brother and obtain a Sith holocron from within a Sith temple located beneath the planet's surface. She and her accomplice came to the aid of the Eighth Brother after he was captured by Kanan Jarrus and Ahsoka Tano; all three Inquisitors were forced to retreat when their opponents were joined by Ezra Bridger and his new companion, the former Sith Lord Maul. Having escaped her adversaries, the Lady Seven dispatched some of her ID9 seeker droids to spy on them. The Lady Seven later attacked Ezra and Maul as they scaled the Sith temple in an attempt to reach a chamber at its top. The Inquisitor was engaged by Ezra in a brief lightsaber duel; she was then lifted into the air by Maul and overcome with terror when the former Sith Lord ordered Bridger to execute her. The young Jedi could not bring himself to do so, much to her smug relief, but Maul had no such restraint and hurled his own weapon at the helpless inquisitor. Powerless, she could only scream before either of the twin blades slashed across her body, much to Ezra's horror. Maul then released his grip on the Lady Seven's bisected corpse, letting it fall to the ground. Her fellow Inquisitors would also fall soon after. In the years following the fall of the Galactic Empire, Jedi Master Luke Skywalker traveled the galaxy to rediscover the history of the Jedi Order that had been suppressed by the Empire. In his search for knowledge, Skywalker became aware of the Lady Seven's existence. During his self-imposed exile on Ahch-To, Skywalker wrote a book he titled The Secrets of the Jedi, which chronicled the information he had learnt on his travels. The Lady Seven was one of several Inquisitors who were depicted in the book as illustrations, alongside information pertaining to the Inquisitorius. She was remembered in the hearts of the few Jedi that survived her rampage. By the time of the Cold War, Dok-Ondar was known to have somehow acquired the helmet formerly worn by the Lady Seven, which he then displayed in his shop. The Mirialan Jedi was coerced into becoming the Lady Seven, and was broken by the Empire who had turned her into a cruel and sadistic Inquisitor who relished others' pain. The Lady Seven kept a tight hold on her emotions and spoke calmly, even during combat. She favored agility over brute strength, and she had a certain level of respect for her opponents. The Lady Seven often disagreed with the methods of the Fifth Brother; this suggested a rivalry between the two. Unlike most inquisitors, she preferred not killing her targets as she believes it is not the best approach. Unlike the Fifth Brother, she was tactically minded and often used cutting barbs or sarcastic comments when sparring with her opponents to put them off-guard. She would often engage her opponents in flirtatious banter, occasionally bordering on seductive, and use her probe droids in combat to distract them. The Lady Seven enjoyed taunting her enemies. But as she taunted Ezra's fear and having no one else to train him, she did not go too far as to brag about the fall of the Jedi Order. She demonstrated occasional willingness to torture, as shown when she remarked that she only needed Ezra alive and not in one piece, insinuating dismemberment if he did not start talking. Despite this, the Lady Seven was profoundly impressed with Ezra's abilities. The Lady Seven's attitude towards her peers was snarky at times. She would mock Fifth Brother's incompetence and Thirteenth Sister's expense on occasion. She is shown to be disrespectful to her fellow inquisitors. As such, she chuckled when Fifth Brother got hit with a sconce by Thirteenth Sister. Like Ninth Sister, the Lady Seven believes her past no longer mattered. The Lady Seven also had a great sense of creativity as she decided to use ID9 seeker droids on her missions because of Thirteenth Sister sending spiderbats on her. Like the Grand Inquisitor and Fifth Brother, the Lady Seven wore black armor. She wore a pointed, curved helmet that was red on the interior and a white outline of a half-circle on the top. It had a retractable faceplate that hid her green skin and red facial tattoos from view. The Lady Seven's eyes were yellow in coloration and her sclera were black. She bore Imperial crest on her shoulders. The portions of her gloves that covered the palms of her hands were red. The Lady Seven was trained in the dark side of the Force for the purpose of hunting down and killing Jedi. Agile and acrobatic, she was a skilled lightsaber duelist, capable of dueling Ezra Bridger and Kana Jarrus on several occasions, briefly held her own against Ahsoka Tano alone, and was considered one of the most capable of inquisitors, being able to get the upper hand during her duel with fellow inquisitor Thirteenth Sister before the latter crushed her hand with the force. Despite her skill, her dueling abilities could not match the skills of more experienced combatants, such as Maul or Ahsoka Tano. While relying less on the Force and often preferring the use of her lightsaber instead, she proved capable of using the Force, able to augment her natural speed and agility, perform telekinesis, holding back the accelerating Phantom (albeit with great amounts of effort), while simultaneously shutting massive hangar doors, and raising an ancient Jedi Temple, although all with the Fifth Brother's aid. She could also induce pain with the mind probe, as well as levitate and manipulate objects and people with the Force, and was of a unique Force ability capable of delivering painful scratches to her opponents. Despite being far less bulky than the Fifth Brother, she was apparently much tougher and had a high tolerance of pain, as she recovered almost immediately from being telekinetically hurled against a stone pillar hard enough that it cracked under the impact, while Fifth Brother was rendered unconscious from a relatively lesser blow to the head against the same pillar. In addition to her Force abilities and dueling capabilities, Lady Seven proved herself a capable tracker and could pilot a TIE fighter. Like all Inquisitors, the Lady Seven carried a double-bladed spinning lightsaber. The weapon had two spikes and ornate engravings on its ringed emitter, and it was worn on the Lady Seven's belt when not in use. It was lost on Malachor when she was killed by Maul. The Lady Seven wore a helmet with the mask part being retractable. She also possessed several ID9 seeker droids; these could be dispensed from a hole in the armor on her back. Initially, when the former Mirialan Jedi became an Inquisitor, she did not use any in her hunt. Then the Lady Seven got the idea from Thirteenth Sister sending a swarm of spiderbats on her in their sparring session. Thus, she began to use her ID9 seeker droids going forward. The Lady Seven was created for the second season of Star Wars Rebels. She is voiced by Sarah Michelle Gellar, who is married to Freddie Prinze Jr., the voice of Kanan Jarrus. In the 2020 book The Art of Star Wars Rebels, Plunkett stated that the shape of the Lady Seven's helmet is based on the ones worn by Nightsisters and there was an error in her character name of being Second Sister.