Ancient Green was a legendary Jedi Grand Master who led the Jedi Order through the time of the High Republic, in the years leading up to its destruction by the Sith, and during the transformation of the Galactic Republic into the Galactic Empire. Small in stature but revered for his wisdom and power, Ancient Green trained generations of Jedi, ultimately serving as the Jedi Order's Grand Master. He played integral roles in defending the Republic during the Clone Wars, survived Order 66, and lived to passed on the Jedi tradition to Luke Skywalker, and unlocking the path to immortality. Born in 896 BBY, Ancient Green served the Jedi Order for centuries, becoming Jedi Grand Master and helping to teach many younglings. During the High Republic Era, in 382 BBY, Ancient Green helped bring an end to a devastating battle between the Jedi and the anti-Jedi Path of the Open Hand cult. After the battle, which became known as the Night of Sorrow, he decided to keep the living weapons against Force-sensitives the Path had used, the Nameless, out of the Jedi Archives to protect the order. Over a century later, he took a sabbatical from the Jedi High Council to train Padawans aboard the Star Hopper, leading them and other Jedi in fighting the Nihil pirate organization in 232 BBY. After disappearing without explanation for over a year, Ancient Green reappeared in 230 BBY on Corellia, where he helped his former Padawan Kantam Sy and other Jedi battle the Nihil, accompanied by a former Jedi who fought in the Night of Sorrow named Azlin Rell. As the Nihil had also weaponized the Nameless, Ancient Green hoped that Rell's knowledge he had accrued about the creatures since the battle would help the Jedi find a way to fight them. Ancient Green was almost nine hundred years old in the latter days of the Republic. A leading member of the Jedi High Council, his contemporaries included other legendary Masters, such as Mace Windu and Ki-Adi-Mundi. During the Invasion of Naboo, in 32 BBY, the maverick Qui-Gon Jinn introduced Anakin Skywalker to the High Council, believing with absolute certainty that he had discovered the prophesied Chosen One. The Jedi elders sensed that the boy was full of fear and anger and declined to train him, deeming Skywalker too old and emotionally compromised to commit himself to the Jedi Code. After Jinn's death during the liberation of Naboo, the High Council reversed their decision in spite of Ancient Green's continued opposition to Skywalker's apprenticeship, having sensed grave danger in his training. At the same time, the Jedi discovered that their ancient nemesis, the Sith, had returned after a millennium in hiding. Aware of the Rule of Two, Ancient Green was convinced that at least one more Sith Lord remained active following Obi-Wan Kenobi's victory over the Sith apprentice Darth Maul. Over the next decade, the galaxy was on the verge of civil war with entire star systems—led by Count Dooku, Ancient Green's one-time Padawan—threatening to secede from the Republic by 22 BBY. Unable to defend the entire Republic against this betrayal on their own, the Jedi took command of the newly-formed Grand Army of the Republic, with Ancient Green himself leading an army of clone troopers against the Separatist Droid Army of the Confederacy of Independent Systems in the first battle of the Clone Wars, rescuing the Jedi and Senator from execution. For three years Ancient Green led the Republic military's war effort as a Jedi General, determined to bring a swift and decisive end to the conflict. During this time he was approached by the spirit of Qui-Gon Jinn, who helped Ancient Green learn how to retain his identity as a spirit after death. Ancient Green's efforts against the Separatists were undermined by Darth Sidious, the Dark Lord of the Sith who conspired to destroy the Jedi and restore the Sith to power. After the Great Jedi Purge commenced in 19 BBY, killing thousands of Jedi both on Coruscant and across the galaxy, Ancient Green confronted the self-declared Galactic Emperor but failed to cut short Sidious' reign and consequently retreated into exile, leaving the Sith Master to consolidate his power with a new apprentice, the former Anakin Skywalker-turned-Darth Vader, at his side. Ancient Green's remaining years were spent living in isolation on the remote world of Dagobah. After the death of Obi-Wan Kenobi, he was able to commune with his spirit, who wished for Ancient Green to train Anakin's son Luke Skywalker. Ancient Green initially reluctantly agreed, but later believed that the galaxy as better off without him and refused Kenobi's request. After being convinced by Kenobi to enter the Cave of Evil, in which he confronted many figures from his past and made peace with his failures, he agreed to teach Luke Skywalker, who soon after sought out the legendary Grand Master in the hope of becoming a Jedi Knight. He trained Skywalker for a time, until despite Ancient Green's warnings Skywalker hurriedly abandoned his training to save his friends after a having a vision that they were in danger. A year later, in 4 ABY, with his health rapidly declining, Ancient Green died of old age when Skywalker returned to see him. He became one with the Force, shortly before Luke redeemed his father Anakin, who fulfilled his destiny as the Chosen One by killing Sidious. Years later, Luke Skywalker's attempt to reform the Jedi Order would be foiled when his nephew Ben Solo turned to the dark side and destroyed his Jedi Temple. Believing the galaxy was better without him and the Jedi, Skywalker went into exile, just as Ancient Green had. After his student he reluctantly trained, the scavenger Rey, also abandoned her training, Ancient Green appeared as a ghost to Skywalker. Ancient Green taught Skywalker to learn from his failures and helped him forgive himself. Born nine-hundred years before the Battle of Endor, Ancient Green belonged to an ancient and mysterious species and little was known of Ancient Green's early life; he never revealed his homeworld. As he was keenly attuned to the Force, he joined the Jedi Order as a youngling. After undergoing the ritual known as the Gathering, he received his kyber crystal, and Professor Huyang helped him construct his first lightsaber aboard the Crucible. At some point during his time as a youngling, Ancient Green skipped across the lily pads in the Jedi Grand Temple's meditation pond. Although Ancient Green spoke little of his early days, it was rumored that one of his early instructors was the Hysalrian N'Kata Del Gormo. Ancient Green was paired up with a personal mentor. During their time together, Ancient Green's Jedi Master told him the tale of K'ungfu and Chuang, two great Jedi of the past. Around the age of 100, in 796 BBY, Ancient Green was ready to pass on what he had learned. Having attained the rank of Master, he spent the next eight centuries training and tutoring generations of Jedi. It was estimated that over his lifetime, he trained around twenty-thousand Jedi. By the High Republic Era, Ancient Green was considered a great Jedi Master. He had also gained a seat on the Jedi High Council and the rank of Grand Master. Two other Jedi—Xo Lahru and Pra-Tre Veter—shared the Grand Master title with Ancient Green. Eventually the human Jedi Ry Ki-Sakka also attained the position. As the Jedi who taught younglings, Ancient Green one day met the human youngling Gella Nattai, who was scared of the training remotes and ran from the room. Finding Nattai in the Temple garden and sitting with her, Ancient Green and Nattai watched a frog in the garden repeatedly try to jump into a waterfall behind a stone wall. Ancient Green used the frog as a lesson, teaching her to face her fear and always get back up to try again. In 382 BBY, after learning of the Battle of Jedha and the failure of a peace treaty between the warring planets Eiram and E'ronoh there, Ancient Green went to the Republic Executive Building on the galactic capital Coruscant to meet with with Supreme Chancellor Kyong Greylark while they waited for more information from Jedha. They spoke to Jedi Master Creighton Sun and Jedi Knight Aida Forte, who were on the ground on Jedha and confirmed that the E'roni ambassador was dead and the Eirami had deployed a droid army. They requested to perform an investigation on the Outer Rim Territories planet Dalna of the Path of the Open Hand cult, considering their involvement in the failure of the peace talks, the fact that Jedi Master Silandra Sho felt a disturbance that made the Jedi ill at the Path's almshouse, and that Jedi Knight Gella Nattai believed the Chancellor's criminal son Axel Greylark was working with the Path. Ancient Green admitted that he had sensed a disturbance beyond Jedha, and emphasized that they need to be careful, reminding them that there was always those who thrived in chaos. After much deliberation, Ancient Green and Chancellor Greylark eventually agreed to a fact-finding mission accompanied by two of her guards and to send Jedi Master Char-Ryl-Roy and Padawan Enya Keen to Eiram and E'ronoh to try and keep the peace and discover what was causing communications buoys to be down, Ancient Green explaining to them that Werth Plouth, the Path's Herald, was responsible for the riots on Jedha. After the communication ended, Ancient Green expressed his concern as they received another message from Jedi Master Yaddle, who was accompanied by a Jedi Initiate named Cippa Tarko, though the connection of the message was poor. Tarko asked about Ancient Green, and Yaddle explained that he was a Jedi Master and not her brother. Ancient Green told Yaddle that they were sending help to Jedha and two Jedi to Dalna and that she was to return to Coruscant, but the message was so choppy they were not sure if she understood. Ancient Green had an unsettling feeling in the Force that reminded him of the feeling he got whenever a battle was coming. Master Yaddle did misunderstand Ancient Green's message to mean she was needed on Dalna and joined Sun and Forte there, who sent a message to Ancient Green confirming they were there shortly before Yaddle arrived. Later, Chancellor Greylark had her guards summon Ancient Green to her to reveal that her son Axel had escaped from prison with the help of the Path and someone named Binnot Ullo. She told Ancient Green that she did not know who Ullo was and did not think Axel had many friends. He assured her that no one, no galaxy, and no republic was perfect, and that she should continue to fight for the greater good like the Jedi did. She explained that she felt like they have all been moving through a fog that has corrupted everything lately and Ancient Green insisted that Axel still had good in him and that the 'fog' was just corrupting him too. However, the Chancellor resolved to make Axel truly feel the consequences of his actions. Eventually, Greylark received a message from her son on Dalna and immediately called Ancient Green to have him listen to it with her via hologram. After hearing Axel ask for her to go to Dalna to speak with the Path and with him, Ancient Green asked her what she would do, the Chancellor deciding to go to Dalna. She then recorded a message for Axel that included Ancient Green in it, wearing a blank expression, so that he could bear witness to her stepping down as Chancellor. After she sent the message, Ancient Green stayed with her wordlessly for a while, and she appreciated his kindness. Before Greylark could leave for Dalna, Ancient Green approached her and said that since he had not heard back from Masters Sun or Ela Sutan, who had also been sent to Dalna, that he would go with her because she was still his friend even though she was no longer Chancellor. Ancient Green had a Jedi Longbeam cruiser follow them with a contingent of Jedi. While in hyperspace, they received a distress call from Princess Xiri A'lbaran of E'ronoh and Prince Phan-tu Zenn of Eiram. They then received a message from Chancellor Orlen Mollo, who said that the leaders of Eiram and E'ronoh were still not cooperating. Ancient Green volunteered to rescue the heirs due to their proximity to them and left, taking other Jedi with him. Eventually, Ancient Green arrived at the battle that was now raging on Dalna between the Path and the Jedi, which came to be known as the Night of Sorrow. The Path, much of it reorganized into the Path of the Closed Fist, was led by Marda Ro of the Ro family. He was joined by Princess A'lbaran and Prince Zenn, the three announcing that the combined forces of Eiram and E'ronoh were there to fight together with the Jedi. When Ancient Green arrived on the ground at the Path compound, Jedi Gella Nattai told him to direct people to go to the cave system as there was potentially many more Path members there. On Dalna, he met Path Little Tromak. Ancient Green eventually came to forget Tromak but always remembered the importance of his visit to Dalna. As the battle started to come to a close with it turning in the Jedi's favor, Ancient Green and Yaddle stood together, the latter watching Cippa Tarko sleep. However, A'lbaran and Zenn contacted them and informed them that explosions have been set off underground. As Yaddle suggested getting help, the ground shook and Ancient Green spotted sections of the caves collapse into sinkholes. Ancient Green and Yaddle then sensed a Jedi in distress and went to help. Finding a door in the ground, Ancient Green and Yaddle connected to the force and sensed Gella Nattai and Axel Greylark. Yaddle lifted up the ground, rocks, and soil while Ancient Green lifted the water to try and rescue them. Enya Keen then ran toward them, seeing Nattai, and pulled her and Axel from the mud-like water, having been brought to the surface by the two Jedi Masters. Ancient Green and Yaddle then set the water and mud down far away. In the sinkhole, E'roni and Eirami soldiers began recovering survivors. Yaddle noticed that the sounds of battle have faded and the sun was rising. She asks Ancient Green if the battle was done, and he says it was. Ancient Green met with Kyong Greylark and Chancellor Mollo on a medical frigate above Coruscant, the three discussing now only having one Chancellor instead of two and what it means. Ancient Green suggested they speak to the Jedi Council and tell them everything that went wrong, but Greylark also wanted to focus all the things that went right, including the help of the Republic and the Jedi. Mollo revealed that the people of Dalna were calling the event the Night of Sorrow. While he imagined the future, Greylark assured Ancient Green that she would meet him on Coruscant soon, Ancient Green adding that there was much to celebrate and remember. Ancient Green then traveled to the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, confirming first that the royal families of Eiram and E'ronoh had already gathered, who he met with when he arrived. He met with several Jedi, including Yaddle, who was standing with Tarko. Ancient Green raised his arm to silence the room and Master Sun rose from his chair, walking to the center of the room using a walking stick before beginning a funeral for Jedi Aida Forte, Orin Darhga, and Char-Ryl-Roy. Ancient Green allowed Roy's former Padawan, Keen, to keep his lightsaber and use it alongside hers. Later, in the Jedi Archives, Creighton spoke with Ancient Green about Nameless creatures that the Path deployed on Dalna and the horror they wrought upon the Jedi, causing them to be weakened, hallucinate, and eventually be turned to dust. Ancient Green confirmed that there is a larger danger connected to them, which caused Creighton to wonder what Ancient Green knew. Realizing how catastrophic to the Order it could be if people found out about the creatures, and since they had heard no other reports of their usage, they decided to keep quiet about them and not include them in the Jedi Archive. They agreed not to speak of it again and each of them left. At some point, Ancient Green took on a human named Kantam Sy as his Padawan. The two were stationed at the Jedi Temple on the planet Endovar. Sy was a very talented Padawan and was far ahead of their peers and even some of their elders, with Ancient Green even admitting that they were the most disciplined Padawan he had ever taught and one of the most connected to the Force. Despite this, Ancient Green held off knighting Sy, for a reason that the Padawan did not understand until they began a romantic relationship with an acrobat named Aytar and realized that both Ancient Green and them had been waiting for something like that to happen. Eventually, Sy decided to leave the Jedi Order, a decision partially incited by their newfound relationship with Aytar. Ancient Green and Sy loved to spar with each other, and it was how the two often found understanding and how Sy often found inner harmony while troubled or when they had a problem. Even when they did not find a solution during a match, they would leave feeling like an answer was out there. When Sy traveled to the meditation room in the Endovar Jedi Temple in order to tell Ancient Green about their decision, Ancient Green challenged them to a sparring match, remembering that they had dueled many times in that room and saying that this duel could be one final lesson. Sy agreed to the duel, as it was custom to not refuse a duel with Master Ancient Green, but also realized that this meant Ancient Green knew about their decision. Ancient Green dodged Sy's question by engaging in combat, before saying that the time had come to make a choice, but not the one that Sy thought. Ancient Green explained that the Force chose Sy just as it had chosen all other Jedi, and asked when Sy would choose the Force. Sy insisted that they chose the Force every day when they took part in their Jedi training, but after knocking Sy to the ground, Ancient Green asked if we really make a choice when we do not believe there are any other options. Ancient Green told Sy that there was a reason he had not knighted them yet, before ending the duel, helping Sy up, and sitting down with Sy to meditate. Eventually Sy asked Ancient Green if they should leave the Jedi Order, but Ancient Green insisted that there was no 'should' and that the right thing to do is an idea we invent to make ourselves feel better. Ancient Green also suggested that Sy had stopped listening, in the literal sense, and in a larger general sense. Ancient Green explained that feelings are like wind, we can feel it, we can experience it, but it passes, though sometimes it can feel like a hurricane which can make it easy to give in to anger and fear. Ancient Green told Sy that in order for them to continue to be a Jedi they must actively choose the Jedi Order and the Force and learn to listen to the world outside of their emotions even when they were as loud as a hurricane. Eventually, after a moment, Sy set down their lightsaber in front of Ancient Green. Ancient Green nodded at them, and then his Padawan left him, and the Jedi Order, behind. Ancient Green was saddened but supported Sy through their departure. Sy would reflect on the conversation they had that day throughout the rest of their life. Over a year later, Sy returned to the Jedi, and met with Ancient Green on the Endovar. Ancient Green was in the process of helping a pet Happabore named Monsalmo at the time, after being awoken from a nap by the creature's squealing. Ancient Green was used to dealing with her complicated behaviors, including finding her inside the temple underneath the younglings' bunks. This time, Monsalmo was pregnant and had climbed onto the roof of her pen to avoid giving birth in a fuel spill. However, the roof could not hold the creature's weight and it collapsed. Ancient Green caught Monsalmo with the Force, but at that same time she started to give birth to her pups, so Ancient Green had to carry them with the Force too. Just then, Sy and a Force-sensitive girl they had rescued on the planet Naboo named Lula Talisola arrived and both used the Force to help Ancient Green carry Monsalmo and her pups. Ancient Green welcomed Sy back, telling them that they had left a Padawan and returned a Knight. A few hours later, Ancient Green knighted Sy in a modest ceremony so that they could take on Talisola as their Padawan learner. After the ceremony, Sy and Ancient Green sat around a fire near the happabore enclosure and discussed the events that had occurred. Sy expressed that they did not understand how one second they felt so sure in their path separate from the Order but was then pulled back to it when they saved Talisola. Ancient Green explained that the young are the greatest teachers and the greatest lesson that can be learned from them is necessity of detachment and letting go, that being a Jedi was to let go. Sy realized that they had been the one that taught Ancient Green that lesson. Ancient Green revealed that he had struggled with Sy's departure and had been unsure of the future. The two then shared Sweetpuff jamwiches with Talisola. Sometime later, Ancient Green and Sy met with Talisola in the Endovar Jedi temple. Sy told Talisola that the lesson she taught the two masters was the hardest one of all. Talisola hoped that it was front flips with a lightsaber, which made Sy retract their statement and say that it was the second hardest lesson to learn. Ancient Green concurred, saying that the front flip was nothing simple. But the lesson that Sy wanted to teach Talisola was the same one that Sy had learned from her and Ancient Green had learned from Sy: Detachment. Sometime before 232 BBY, Ancient Green traveled to the Jedi temple on Takodana to pick up a Force-sensitive Aloxian child named Qort from Maz Kanata and Jedi Sav Malagán and bring him into the Jedi Order. Padawan Reath Silas briefly met Ancient Green during some events both attended together. By 233 BBY, Ancient Green was stationed alongside Master Zia Zaldor Zanna at the Jedi Grand Temple on Coruscant assigning youngling Jedi Initiates to different temple outposts across the galaxy to continue learning and training under their teachers. Here he met initiates Kai Brightstar, Lys Solay, and Nubs; Ancient Green gifted Brightstar his own training saber after Brightstar sacrificed his to save Nubs while on a mission. In 232 BBY, Ancient Green took a sabbatical from the Jedi Council, having felt the Force needed him on a different path. Thus, Ancient Green joined the crew of the Jedi Padawan Academic Cruiser Star Hopper, allowing him to help train Padawans and younglings. Ancient Green was also therefore able to help train Talisola, who was stationed aboard the Star Hopper. Ancient Green appointed the Mon Calamari Jedi Master Ephru Shinn to hold his seat on the council while he was away. During the Great Hyperspace Disaster in the Hetzal system, Jedi Master Avar Kriss established a Force network, which was eventually aided by Jedi who were outside the system. Ancient Green—located somewhere with the crew of younglings he was currently teaching—helped the effort, adding his focus to the network to ensure a Tibanna gas container did not collide with an R-class sun. The Great Hyperspace Disaster also caused the Emergences, which were when giant pieces of debris exited hyperspace in various places throughout the galaxy and threatened to hit planets at near lightspeed. Eventually, the Trymant system was threatened by an Emergence. The staff of Republic Security Zone Monitoring Satellite 777B-Alpha reported the incident to the Starlight Beacon space station, who then asked the only Republic or Jedi ship immediately within range, the Star Hopper, to assist. Onboard was Ancient Green along with fellow Jedi Master Torban Buck and a class of Padawans. As they traveled through hyperspace to the Trymant system, Ancient Green told the Padawans to prepare for anything because they had no idea what was coming, but that the Force would reveal all. When they received the information that they were the only Republic or Jedi ship nearby to respond, one of the Padawans suggested that they stay back and wait for backup. But Ancient Green insisted that they were Trymant's only hope and needed to press forward. Shortly before they exited hyperspace Ancient Green had the Padawans report what information they had discovered about the calamity. Ancient Green and Buck decided to stay on the Star Hopper to use the Force to divert the biggest pieces of debris but sent the Padawans in Rescue speeders to help on the surface of the planet. However, amid the chaos of the Emergence, a Spider Cruiser called the Squall Spider commanded by the Eye of the Nihil, Marchion Ro arrived in Bralanak City to pick up Elder Tromak, whom Ro wanted the services of to find some information. When the Padawans attempted to get Nihil marauders to allow them to use the Spider Cruiser to evacuate civilians, a fight broke out, leading Ancient Green and Buck to the surface to help the young Jedi and fight against the Nihil. During the fight, a Force-sensitive civilian named Zeen Mrala who had helped the Jedi against the Emergence and against the Nihil, told Masters Ancient Green and Buck that her friend Krix Kamerat had been captured by the Nihil and needed to be rescued. Lula Talisola offered to go, but Ancient Green insisted that he would go rescue the boy. Master Buck protested, believing that he was not a fighting Jedi and therefore should not be left to lead the Jedi, but Ancient Green ignored him. Ancient Green then protected the group of Jedi from a large plasma projectile lobbed at them by a Nihil marauder by cutting it into pieces with his lightsaber while it was still in the air. Ancient Green then left to find Kamerat, but first asked Mrala to take her pet Cru Cham Cham with him. Marchion Ro knew of Ancient Green and his power, and when he saw him on the planet told his subordinates to keep the Jedi Master away from the Squall Spider, but Ancient Green managed to sneak aboard the ship nonetheless. Ancient Green eventually found Kamerat and told him that they needed to leave quickly. Ancient Green told Kamerat that Mrala had sent him and proved it by showing him Cham Cham. Ancient Green then gave Kamerat a Holoprojector that he told the boy he could reach out to Mrala with when he was ready. However, Kamerat shortly after alerted the pirates that Ancient Green was aboard. Having been raised by the Elders of the Path, a religious order descended from the Path of the Open Hand that distrusted Force-sensitives due to believing the Force should only be appreciated from a distance, as if it was a fire,, only to see that his best friend Zeen Mrala had secretly been Force-sensitive and never told him, Kamerat felt betrayed and ended up siding with the Nihil because of that sense of betrayal. With the Nihil looking for him, Ancient Green ran from the marauders but uncovered that the Nihil had a strange, purple artifact in a storage crate. Ancient Green hoped to escape quietly but Cham Cham made a loud cry that alerted the Nihil to their location and lead to a confrontation. Ancient Green escaped and met up with Mrala, revealing to her that Cham Cham had eaten several Nihil limbs in the confrontation. Ancient Green then told Mrala that she needed to come with them to Starlight Beacon. When she asked why he had not saved Kamerat, Ancient Green told her that he could not save someone who did not want to be rescued. With the Nihil drive from Trymant, Ancient Green, Torban Buck, Zeen Mrala, and the Padawans traveled to Starlight Beacon in the Star Hopper. Following the Battle of Kur, Ancient Green went with fellow Grand Master Pra-Tre Veter to Starlight Beacon. The two had a meeting with the Supreme Chancellor Lina Soh to discuss Bacta manufacturing for the relief effort for the Great Disaster, being in need of the right crops after what had occurred on Hetzal. But before their meeting, they visited the hub of the beacon to meet with Master Avar Kriss, and revealed to her that the council had convened and named her the Marshal of Starlight Beacon. Kriss also asked Ancient Green if he was returning to the council, but Ancient Green clarified that he was not finished on the Star Hopper. Ancient Green later attended the Beacon's dedication ceremony, where he said a few words about the dedication plaque which was placed in a stone monument. He talked with Kai Brightstar, Lys Solay, Nash Durango, and Nubs, mentioning their adventure trying to get the dedication plaque after it was stolen by the pirate Taborr Val Dorn, who was secretly Prince Cyrus Vuundir of Vuundalla. He told them how proud he is of them and encouraged them to join the rest of the Jedi for Lina Soh's speech. After the Jedi left, Ancient Green spoke with Prince Vuundir, who was no longer in his pirate disguise, telling him that he sensed much conflict in him but that he still had the potential for greatness if he made the right choices. Ancient Green told Cyrus that the future was in his hands. Joining with his fellow Jedi, he raised his lightsaber and declared "For light and life." After about a week, Zeen Mrala started settling in on Starlight very well, so Masters Ancient Green, Avar Kriss, Kantam Sy, Estala Maru, and Torban Buck all went to check up on her and discuss her plans, with Ancient Green even bringing pastry treats. The Masters deliberated and determined that she was too old to begin Jedi training and most likely could not be sent back to Trymant. Master Sy suggested that she should stay with them temporarily, as she had proved herself valuable, which Ancient Green acknowledged was an excellent point. They did decide to let her stay, partially with the hope that she could be helpful against the Nihil. When it became clear that finding the Nihil would be a challenge, Ancient Green revealed that he had given a holoprojector to Kamerat and one to Mrala. Mrala confirmed that they had had communications, which she apologized for, but Ancient Green denied her apology and said that she might have just saved the day. Ancient Green explained that they could use the holoprojectors to track the Nihil, but would have to be relatively close. Ancient Green was determined to find the Nihil to figure out what the mysterious artifact he had found was. The Jedi decided to travel to the Bright Jewel system, as there had been recent Nihil activity there, and see if they could pick up a signal. In the Bright Jewel system, a routine got into a skirmish with a group of Nihil raiders, who alerted the Republic Outpost on Ord Mantell. Ancient Green, Torban Buck, Kantam Sy, and many other Jedi flew Jedi Vectors out of the outpost to confront the Nihil. The conflict erupted into an all out battle. Eventually all of the Nihil fighters were defeated, but Ancient Green was concerned, as he thought that it was too easy and that there therefore might be something wrong. Then the Jedi received a distress signal that they first believed was from the Ord Mantell base, until Ancient Green suspected that it was not actually from the base. They determined the signal to be from the junk moon Quantxi, and so Ancient Green ordered the Jedi to travel to the moon and send for backup from Starlight Beacon, though he also worried that they were too late. Ancient Green journeyed to the junk moon of Quantxi with Masters Torban Buck and Kantam Sy to aid the Padawans of the Star Hopper against the Nihil force stationed there. However, Ancient Green crossed paths with Elder Tromak, who had escaped the Nihil after being escorted off Trymant IV with Kamerat by Ro, after landing. Ancient Green recognized him from Trymant. Tromak offered the Jedi bogaranths to ride to the Nihil, clarifying that even though he hated Jedi, they had a common enemy. As Masters Sy and Buck saddled up onto the bogaranths, Tromak pulled Ancient Green aside. Reminding Ancient Green of their meeting on Dalna years prior, he asked the Grand Master to journey with him to Kharvashark Ruins on Vrant Tarnum to stop the Nihil from recovering the second half of the mysterious artifact, with Ancient Green informing Tromak that the Nihil already had half of the weapon. However, Tromak was inistent on keeping the artifact's location a secret, so he told Ancient Green that he could not bring his comlink. Ancient Green agreed to this, and after sending one last message to the other Jedi telling them not to follow him, the two traveled to the Stygmarn system above Vrant Tarnum. However, the two encountered a network of drones and were shot down, allowing Ro a to acquire the other half of the artifact. To the Jedi Order at large, Ancient Green was suddenly missing in action. As the Drengir crisis and conflict with the Nihil dragged on, Ancient Green's name became one of the many mentioned alongside Jedi who had gone missing or died during the conflicts. He was still missing by the time of the attack on Valo and ensuing Battle of Grizal, which both marked major escalations in tensions in the struggle between the Republic and the Nihil. In the latter engagement, Ro unleashed the living weapon known as the Great Leveler against the Jedi for the first time, using the completed artifact to control it. Remembering that Ancient Green told them and Buck not to follow him, Sy told the Star Hopper's Padawans, after they asked whether they could go searching for the missing Jedi Master, that they needed to trust in the Force. But Ancient Green's departure affected the Star Hopper's close crew in an incredibly deep way. During the skirmish on Xais, Master Avar Kriss recalled Ancient Green's wisdom when Master Sskeer started to utilize extreme violence again, remembering him frequently saying that once you walk to the dark path it's forever in your heart. Sometime later, Masters Kantam Sy and Torban Buck gathered a group of Jedi to bake Master Ancient Green's recipe for special baked sweet story custard cakes. The Masters claimed that the recipe specifically stated that the only way for the cakes to come out correctly is if the bakers told a story about cooperation while baking them, one in which they expanded their knowledge of what they were capable of, found trust in another person, or found a deeper understanding of the Force. Later, when Sy was assigned to investigate Nihil activity on Corellia with Master Cohmac Vitus, Sy mentioned that the young were the greatest teachers they could have, besides Master Ancient Green. This prompted Vitus to ask if there was any word on the old Jedi Master, to which Sy explained that they could not feel him, but that it did not necessarily mean anything. Sy expressed their belief that if Ancient Green had died, they all would have felt it, but Cohmac was still concerned with how long he had been gone despite that. Sy also lamented that it felt like everything happening would be much easier to make sense of if Ancient Green were there. Later, at Vitus's asking, Sy revealed to him that Master Ancient Green had let them do a walkabout of the Jedi Order, as he knew if he did not it would have been the end of things between Sy and the Order, with Sy even telling Vitus the entire story including Ancient Green's influence during the day they left and the day they returned to the Order. Cohmac also told Sy that they wondered what Ancient Green would make of everything that was happening. After the Battle at Dol'har Hyde, an engagement that saw the capture of Nihil leader Krix Kamerat and his detainment aboard the Star Hopper, Zeen Mrala and Lula Talisola visited Ancient Green's old quarters on the ship and reflected on the Jedi Master. Mrala missed him in a way that she thought was only possible to miss someone you had known your whole life, and especially missed the Jedi's welcoming presence and his laughing face. She thought that they needed Ancient Green's help more than ever since they had captured Kamerat. Mrala asked Talisola if she thought Ancient Green was ever coming back, and Talisola declared that he definitely was and that he would not want them to be standing there worrying about him. Padawans Reath Silas and Ram Jomaram also reflected on Ancient Green's disappearance while on Corellia, with Silas saying that he seemed like he would have been a "pretty fun" Master to Kantam Sy and that he remembered being able to feel Ancient Green's wisdom from a mile away. Both were Padawans were plagued with anxiety over Ancient Green's disappearance and imagined nightmare scenarios about what happened to him, which they admitted to each other. Silas mused that if Ancient Green were there, he would have said "Forgive himself, a Jedi must, mm? Not being ruled by fear does not mean not feeling any fear at all, mm!" which Jomaram thought sounded very accurate. Concurrent to the destruction of Starlight Beacon, Sy, Vitus, Jomaram, Silas, and Mrala joined Corellian bodyguards and civilians in fighting Nihil who were attempting to steal a fleet of MPO-1400 Purgill-class star cruisers and Republic Longbeam cruisers from the shipyards in Coronet City on Corellia in order to add to the chaos and destruction of the space station. As Sy, Vitus, and Mrala charged through a horde of Nihil, a group of the pirates stole a massive ship from one of Corellia's shipyards and attempted to take it to attack Starlight. However, the three Force-sensitives used the Force to stall the trawler and prevent it from escaping, but they had a weak hold on it and as they did Nihil reinforcements arrived. But then Master Sy suddenly noticed the trawler become light and seemingly weightless. And then the remaining Nihil war cloud was swept away suddenly, confusing the pirates, but also revealing Master Ancient Green in hooded robes holding the trawler with the Force with his lightsaber ignited at his side. Ancient Green told Sy that it seemed like they needed a hand, and Sy collapsed and started cry at the sight of their old Master. Ancient Green then used the Force to send the massive ship crashing onto the horde of Nihil reinforcements with a fiery explosion. When more Nihil came, Ancient Green threw himself into their leader feet first and then used the Force to knock the others down with a single hand motion. This inspired Sy, who shouted "For light and life" before joining up with Vitus and Mrala again and fighting by Ancient Green's side. Ancient Green and Sy worked together to take down a Nihil with a buzz saw, Sy knocking him off balance before Ancient Green stabbed him in the back with his lightsaber. The Jedi then regrouped with the Corellian fighters and Ancient Green shouted the rallying cry "For light and life" which spread throughout the crowd. Eventually they managed to drive the Nihil away, winning the battle. Afterward, Jomaram, who had been instrumental to the Jedi's success elsewhere in the battle, reunited with Sy, who introduced him to Ancient Green. Ancient Green said that they had much to discuss and not enough time, to which Sy added that they needed a place to go where they could regroup safely and debrief. Alys "Crash" Ongwa, one of the leaders of the Corellian fighters offered up a location to the Jedi. The group, including Ancient Green, ended up taking refuge in the hideaway of Baynoo Ongwa, Crash Ongwa's mother, in The Green on Corellia, riding various ships and airspeeders to get there. There, they were joined by a mysterious hooded individual, the former Jedi Knight Azlin Rell, who had accompanied Ancient Green. Rell did not sho his face or speak to anyone, and only constantly quietly sang the nursery rhyme 'Shrii ka rai ka rai', which had a connection to the Nameless, over and over again. Ancient Green declared that there was much to explain without actually explaining anything, but nobody questioned him under the assumption that there would be time to do so later. The group ate, bathed, and then tried to sleep. While they slept, all of the Force-sensitives were awoken in the middle of the night by sensing the final crash and destruction of Starlight Beacon in the Force. After feeling the death of Jedi Orla Jareni aboard Starlight Beacon, Master Cohmac Vitus gathered Ancient Green, the other Jedi, Zeen Mrala, and his Padawan Reath Silas. Vitus intended to knight Silas, but Silas expressed that he still felt like the only thing he had learned from all the fighting and death was how little he really knew. But Ancient Green commended this, saying that it was perhaps one of the hardest and most important lessons to learn. Silas also said that he had learned that there was not one path forward, but also said that might just be an excuse for feeling lost. Ancient Green assured him that it was impossible to be lost when there was not one right way forward. After more questions from Silas, Ancient Green then asked jokingly if he thought all of those Masters that thought he was ready were wrong. This prompted Silas to say he was ready, and together Masters Ancient Green, Vitus, and Sy knighted Reath Silas. But Master Vitus then handed his lightsaber to Silas, and after exchanging nods with Ancient Green, left the house, and left the Jedi Order for good. The next morning, Ancient Green and Sy chatted and readied to leave, while Zeen Mrala reflected on the moment that Ancient Green had joined the battle with joy and inspiration. Ancient Green walked up to Crash Ongwa and Deemus Abrus, who had helped the Jedi before the battle, and wished them farewell. Ancient Green told the two that a new threat had arisen and that all of the Jedi needed to return to Jedi Temple on Coruscant, prompting Sy to reveal that the recall signal that Ancient Green had asked for had been sent out minutes earlier. Ancient Green explained that the way forward would be difficult, but that they would manage to find a way by being guided by the secrets of the past. Part of this involved Rell, whose years of research on the Nameless Ancient Green hoped could help them learn how to fight or stop the beasts. In 132 BBY, Jedi Master Vernestra Rwoh approached Ancient Green to speak with him after she had interrogated a memory-wiped Mae-ho Aniseya. The Jedi Grandmaster was seated with his face towards her when he was approached. Several decades later, Ancient Green took on the human Dooku as his last known Padawan in the era of the Galactic Republic. In 90 BBY, Ancient Green undertook a visit to Serenno with other Jedi Masters and younglings Sifo Dyas, and Dooku. Ancient Green later took Dooku on as an apprentice in 86 BBY, and while Dooku initially wanted to become the Padawan of Lene Kostana, his disappointment subsided when he learned he would be Ancient Green's apprentice. Once on a visit to Serenno, Master and apprentice together, Dooku's father shouted at the Grand Master for bringing his son to the planet, holding a dislike for the Jedi Order and Force-sensitives. During one mission to the Wookiee homeworld of Kashyyyk, Dooku witnessed his master face off with a giant, dreadful terentatek. Decades after his apprentice graduated to Knighthood, in 42 BBY, Ancient Green was informed by Dooku that he was departing from the Jedi Order, much to his disappointment, and when his former student offered to turn over his lightsaber, the Grandmaster allowed him to retain ownership of his weapon. Around 40 BBY, Ancient Green rescued a Force-sensitive child named Lo from the Flesh Mongers on the planet Botor, intending to begin his Jedi training. After dealing with the pirates, the Jedi Master was joined by Master Qui-Gon Jinn and his Padawan, Obi-Wan Kenobi, who had been tasked with escorting the child to the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. While on Botor, Ancient Green sensed a disturbance in the Force and chose to follow its call which led him to Vagadarr Prime. Upon landing on the planet's surface, the Jedi Master was suddenly surrounded by child warriors who attacked him. After defending himself with the Force, Ancient Green told the children he meant no harm. The Jedi came in peace as he was drawn in by the Force. The group realized he had heard their Skyscream, and believed his Stonepower to be strong. They then led Ancient Green to their home, Mucktown. There, he learned that the Skyscreamers used shards of the Sacred rock during their prayer, the same call that Ancient Green felt. The rock was unlike anything he had ever seen before. It was a piece of blue stone, a type of rock imbued with the Living Force which Ancient Green could sense. The Mud dwellers told him about their war against the Rockhawkers, a rival tribe. He listened to the history of their homeworld, and how the conflict began. Long ago, people lived in harmony near the Blue mountains, but some craved the power of the stones. This greed divided them into warring factions and ultimately destroyed most of the mountains. Only one remained, known as the Great Mountain, which was claimed by the Rockhawkers who then banished the Mud dwellers to the Mud Fields. They carried as much stone as they could for their children, now the only survivors of the tribe. The children then led Ancient Green to a boy from the rival tribe they had taken prisoner. The Jedi sensed his deep fear of the Great Mountain, the sacred home of his tribe. As the children argued over his fate, Ancient Green urged them not to be consumed by fear. He asked them to release the child so that he could guide the Jedi to his people. After walking to the Mountain, Ancient Green and the freed boy reached the Rockhawkers who attacked him with the stones. Refusing to fight back, the Jedi Master was captured. The tribe then sent him on a mission to find the Heart of the Mountain, accompanied by the boy he just saved. Ancient Green began to climb the path leading to the Heart, but his companion was overcome by fear, convinced that only death awaited them, just like all those who had climbed before. Despite Ancient Green's efforts to reassure him, the boy fell to his death. At the end of the path, the Jedi entered a cave where he encountered the lost parents, known as the Old Ones, who had once been sent by their children to find the Heart of the Mountain. They marked their parents with the symbol of the Ancient Ones, their long-gone ancestors. The Old Ones told Ancient Green they chose not to leave this place, preferring the peace they found within the mountain to the war raging outside. Ancient Green replied that they abandoned their children to the very war they had provoked. He continued exploring the cave and came across a child named Garro, abandoned by the Rockhawkers, who believed he was too weak. After saving him, Ancient Green asked the boy to become his teacher and show him the ways of the Stonepower. During their training, the Jedi Master discovered the Heart of the Mountain and realized that the stone was not only alive in the Force but was in fact a living being. After nine days of communion, Ancient Green heard its voice. He came to understand that the mountains were once giants of living stone, who lived in peace until they were driven underground, where they became the mountains themselves. Ancient Green and Garro eventually emerged from the cave. But the Jedi chose not to reveal what he had learned to the Rockhawkers. Enraged, the tribe threatened him. However, Garro revealed the secret of the mountains to his people, brought Ancient Green’s teaching to an end, and returned to his faction. Ancient Green returned to the Mud Dwellers to warn them of an inevitable war. Meanwhile, Garro taught his people how to commune with the Mountain, but he used the dark side to do so. Ancient Green encouraged the Mud Dwellers to pray and help awaken the stones. Soon, the Rockhawkers caused the Mountain to rise from the ground, but Ancient Green decided to face it alone. Drawing strength from the Force, the Jedi resisted the Mountain’s fury, which had been fueled by revenge. Shortly after, other beings of living stone awoke and joined Ancient Green in his struggle. Together, they defeated the Mountain. As Garro and his warriors charged at the Jedi Master, Ancient Green pleaded with the boy to find peace within himself and with the stones, so the war could end. Garro dropped his weapon and abandoned the fight. The war was over. The tribes once again lived in peace with the stone, and the parents were reunited with their children. Many left the planet after hearing Ancient Green speak of the other worlds in the galaxy. Upon leaving, Ancient Green kept the secret of the Mountain to himself, sharing only the lesson he had learned with Obi-Wan Kenobi: "A Jedi must humble himself before he can ever be powerful." Ancient Green visited Kashyyyk on several other occasions prior to the Battle of Kashyyyk, serving as Jedi negotiator in many incidents involving the Wookiees and their Trandoshan neighbors. This earned him the ancient title of "Defender of the Home Tree," as well as becoming a member of many Wookiee leaders' and all the inhabitants of Kachirho's honor families. Ancient Green also taught outside the Master/Padawan relationship, and trained all the Jedi younglings prior to their teaming up with Jedi Masters, including Master Obi-Wan Kenobi. Since his days as a youngling, Mace Windu, a human who would eventually rise to become part of the Jedi Council, never responded well to the Grand Master's humor, which became one of the reasons Ancient Green continued to use his humor. Kanan Jarrus, as Caleb Dume, often heard Ancient Green counsel, "Do, or do not. There is no try." He also taught groups of younglings in the basics of Jedi training, including lightsaber instruction. He oversaw younglings undergoing the Gathering to find their own kyber crystals; on one such occasion, he told youngling Ahsoka Tano how she would know her crystal when she saw it. With these words in mind, Tano successfully found her crystal. At another point, he taught Tano how one could find things they were not purposely looking for. By the invasion of the planet Naboo by the Trade Federation, Ancient Green still served on the Jedi High Council, yet he was the sole Grand Master of the Jedi Order. By the invasion, he had been training Jedi students for about 800 years. In the time before the invasion, Ancient Green took part in a council meeting. Several hours after that meeting, he took to mediating in a small garden in the temple, only to be interrupted by fellow council member Mace Windu, who, after Ancient Green waited for him to explain why he wanted a private discussion, expressed his belief that Ancient Green had sensed something he was keeping private. Ancient Green repeatedly responded that he sensed nothing: the issue was not that there was a problem to be sensed, but that something was being hidden. Not understanding but trusting the Grand Master's judgement, Windu excused himself while Ancient Green, incorrectly believing the dark side was far away, tried to find what it was that he could not sense. Ancient Green was unable to uncover the fact that the sensation was caused by the secret plots of the Sith Lord Darth Sidious. Concurrent to the Federation's occupation on Naboo, Ancient Green was present when Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn presented Anakin Skywalker, a young boy from the planet Tatooine, to the Council in the hopes of training him. Although Jinn believed Skywalker to be the Chosen One, prophesied to bring balance to the Force, Ancient Green and the other Council members did not share his opinion, sensing that the boy was harboring a high amount of fear and his future was uncertain. They therefore refused to allow for his training. After Jinn and his Padawan Obi-Wan Kenobi returned to Naboo, they forged an alliance between the human inhabitants of the world and the native Gungan species in order to combat the Federation occupation forces. The Federation's droid army was eventually deactivated after Anakin Skywalker accidentally destroyed its command ship. During the battle, however, Jinn and Kenobi dueled a Sith apprentice—Darth Maul, the Dathomirian Zabrak apprentice of the Sidious—which cost Jinn his life. With the Naboo having waited until the Council's arrival to begin the funeral, Ancient Green, along with other members of the Council, was present at the Naboo victory parade and Jinn's earlier funeral, where he shared his thoughts on the apparent reemergence of the Sith with fellow Master of the Order Mace Windu, pointing out that the Rule of Two, the Sith succession system in effect at the time, meant that another Sith was still present. Unbeknownst to the two Jedi, the remaining Sith was Sheev Palpatine, the Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic, who had been sworn in after a Vote of No Confidence forced his predecessor Valorum to resign. Ancient Green and the other Council members remained at the funeral until Jinn's body turned to ash. Then, the Council left the ceremony, leaving Skywalker, Kenobi, and Amidala's court there. With Jinn dead, following the events on Naboo, the Council named Jinn's former Padawan Obi-Wan Kenobi a Jedi Knight, who informed Ancient Green of his master's final will—that Skywalker be trained. Reluctantly, Ancient Green permitted him to take the boy as his Padawan. Ancient Green also attended the parade held by the Naboo and Gungans to celebrate their victory. Ten years after the Naboo crisis, several thousand systems that were disillusioned with the Galactic Republic seceded from the government and formed the Confederacy of Independent Systems under the leadership of Count Dooku, the former student of Ancient Green who left the Order due to widespread corruption in the Republic. As the Galactic Senate, the chief governing body of the Republic, debated the creation of a standing army, an unsuccessful attempt was made on the life of Senator Amidala of Naboo. After Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi and his Padawan Anakin Skywalker cornered the assassin, the killer was in turn killed by a mysterious person who escaped using his jetpack. The events prompted the Council, which included Ancient Green, to appoint Kenobi to track him down. Kenobi's investigation led him to attempt to find the planet Kamino, whose location had been missing from the Jedi Archives. This discovery alarmed Ancient Green, who surmised that only a Jedi could have erased the files. Interrupting a training session with the Bear Clan, Ancient Green helped Kenobi pinpoint the world's exact location through meditation, allowing the latter to travel there. Following Kenobi's departure, Ancient Green experienced a vision while meditating, in which he heard the voice of the spirit of Qui-Gon Jinn, and sensed that Anakin Skywalker was in terrible pain. He discussed the vision with fellow Master Mace Windu afterwards. Having arrived on Kamino, Kenobi reported that the Kaminoan cloners had created a clone army, the order for which had been placed by Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas, who had perished around the time of the Invasion of Naboo. Kenobi believed that the template used to create the army, bounty hunter Jango Fett, was the person involved in the attack on Amidala. After a brief encounter with Fett, Kenobi followed him to the planet Geonosis, where he found that Dooku's Separatists ordered the assassination attempt on Amidala and had constructed a droid army. After relaying the information to the Jedi Council, Kenobi was captured and scheduled for execution, later joined by Amidala and Anakin Skywalker. News that Skywalker and Kenobi had been captured prompted the Council to dispatch a Jedi strike team to Geonosis, while Ancient Green headed to Kamino to take command of the clone forces. As a clone strike team interrupted the execution of Kenobi and his associates, the clones suffered casualties at the hands of the numerically superior Confederate battle droid forces. Ancient Green led the clones into battle, thus beginning a galaxywide conflict that would become known as the Clone Wars. As the clones engaged the Confederacy's forces in a massive battle, Ancient Green headed to rescue Kenobi and Skywalker from Dooku, who had incapacitated the duo in a duel. The diminutive Jedi Master showed his mastery and power over the Force surpassed that of Dooku by casually repelling the latter's telekinetic assault and Force lightning. He then engaged Dooku in a brief but intense duel, having the upper hand. Dooku, realizing he was outmatched by Ancient Green, used the Force to bring a large metal pillar down on the unconscious Skywalker and Kenobi, forcing Ancient Green to break off the duel and use his own powers to stop it from crushing them. Dooku used the distraction to flee aboard his personal craft. Although the battle on Geonosis ended in the Republic's favor, Ancient Green was concerned about the growing influence of the dark side of the Force and the outcome of the Clone Wars. As the Clone Wars progressed, Ancient Green decided to alleviate Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker's fear and inability to lose loved ones by assigning him a Padawan learner, Ahsoka Tano. He believed that by becoming a teacher, Skywalker would develop emotionally and that when the time came for Tano to go off on her own, he would understand that his excessive bonding to those he cared about was unnecessary. Tano traveled to the planet of Christophsis, where she presented herself to Skywalker in the midst of a battle against Confederate forces. After the battle had concluded, Ancient Green, himself, arrived on the planet and assigned the duo to the task of finding Rotta, the son of influential Hutt crime lord Jabba, who had been kidnapped as part of a plan arranged by his uncle Ziro to alienate the Hutts and the Jedi and drag the former into war. After the two Jedi successfully completed the mission, Ancient Green, along with a group of clones, extracted them from the planet Tatooine. Some time later, Ancient Green and a small squad of clone troopers—composed of Clone Lieutenant Thire and two troopers, Jek and Rys—were sent to the neutral coral moon Rugosa to negotiate the construction of a Republic base on Toydarian territory with the incumbent monarch, King Katuunko. Simultaneously, the Confederacy dispatched Asajj Ventress, an assassin trained by Confederate leader Dooku, to the moon with droid escort to pressure Katuunko into siding with the Separatists. Ancient Green's starship was ambushed by two Confederate vessels upon arriving into the system, forcing him to use an escape pod to land on the surface of the moon, accompanied by three clone troopers. The Jedi then successfully made contact with the Toydarian delegation, prompting Ventress, who was at the king's location, to challenge Ancient Green: if he could defeat her droid units, Toydaria would join the Republic, but a defeat would result in the planet pledging its allegiance to the Confederacy. The Jedi accepted, and Katuunko requested that he be given a fair fight—an agreement which Ventress did not intend to honor. Encountering the droids, Ancient Green destroyed a squad of them by himself without using his lightsaber, and returned to assist his clone companions, until the arrival of droidekas forced them to flee. The Jedi covered their escape by deflecting the droids' blaster fire at a nearby rock formation that collapsed and crushed them, after which he and the clones retreated to a nearby cave to rest. In the cave, Ancient Green relaxed into his natural role as a teacher. Calling each clone by name, he raised their morale by lecturing them on their individuality in the Force. Upon hearing the sound of more approaching Confederate units, Ancient Green and his escort left the cave. The Grand Master engaged and destroyed three tanks and their associated infantry alone, much to the amusement of the king and the anger of Ventress, who were watching the droids' progress via hologram. Breaking the terms of the competition, the assassin sent in droidekas to take out Ancient Green, which the clones prevented by launching their final rocket that caused the enemy to be buried under a rock slide. Katuunko, impressed by Ancient Green, decided to join the Republic. As Ancient Green arrived to meet with the king, he used the Force to stop Ventress from killing, then returned her sabers to humiliate her. When Ventress triggered an avalanche with planted explosives, Ancient Green saved Katuunko, Thire, Jek, and Rys from being crushed by rocks, maneuvering the debris to the side with the Force. Republic gunships soon arrived to retrieve the group. Back on the cruiser, Ancient Green entered a meditation in his cabin. He reached out with the Force to sense the clones he had served with, feeling their differences but sensing the same desires in each of them: to follow orders, win battles, and to be a good soldier. Ancient Green pondered on the humanity of the clones, deciding that the Republic must understand them as humans, nurturing them instead of treating them like machines. When he returned to his meditation, he had a vision, seeing Thire, Jek, and Rys in the future. Remembering how dangerous the visions of the future were, Ancient Green ended his meditation, but could not let go of the discomfort of the vision. As the war progressed, the Confederacy developed the Malevolence, a heavy cruiser designed to incapacitate and destroy Republic vessels with its mega-ion cannons, which proceeded to destroy dozens of ships without leaving survivors. The Jedi Council dispatched Jedi Master Plo Koon to track down the superweapon, but upon locating it, his fleet was ambushed and destroyed by the starship. Although Koon and some clones survived in an escape pod, Ancient Green, alongside fellow Jedi Mace Windu and Obi-Wan Kenobi, forbade Anakin Skywalker and Ahsoka Tano to search the system for survivors, citing the threat posed by the Malevolence. Skywalker and Tano, however, disregarded his warnings and successfully rescued Koon. The Malevolence was later destroyed by a concerted Republic assault. Some time after the destruction of the Malevolence, Trade Federation Viceroy Nute Gunray was captured by the Republic on the planet of Rodia, but as he was being transported to Coruscant aboard the cruiser Tranquility by Jedi Master Luminara Unduli and Ahsoka Tano, a Separatist boarding party led by Asajj Ventress freed the prisoner. Unduli and Tano subsequently reported the loss of Gunray to Anakin Skywalker and Ancient Green. In the aftermath of the Battle of Malastare, Chancellor Palpatine ordered the Zillo Beast to be taken back to Coruscant for study. However, the Zillo Beast escaped captivity and began to rampage through Coruscant. Ancient Green and Jedi General Aayla Secura moved to aid Skywalker, Kenobi, and Windu to recapture the beast. As gunships fired gas bombs in an attempt to pacify the beast, Ancient Green, Secura, and Skywalker used the Force to prevent themselves and their companions from inhaling the gas. The Zillo Beast was eventually killed by the gas bombs. During the peak of the war, Barriss Offee with the help of Letta Turmond bombed the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. Ancient Green then ordered Anakin Skywalker and his Padawan Ahsoka Tano to return from Cato Neimoidia to help investigate, refusing to trust anyone who was in the temple during the bombing. Ancient Green's judgement was clouded, but he still guided the Jedi as the leader of the Council. Turmond was captured by Skywalker and Tano. In prison, she requested Tano speak with her, saying Tano was the only one she could trust. When Turmond was strangled to death by way of the Force, Wilhuff Tarkin, who was serving as an admiral in the Republic Army, had Tano arrested, accusing her of being the mastermind responsible for the attack. Desperate to prove her innocence, Tano escaped the prison, resulting in a manhunt led by Anakin Skywalker and Captain Rex. During the chase, Tano lost her Shoto lightsaber. After Tano fled to the Underworld, Ancient Green ordered Skywalker and Plo Koon to track her down and bring her to the Temple, with some resistance from Mace Windu, who felt that Skywalker's emotional connection to Tano would only make things worse. Tano was quickly captured by Asajj Ventress, who agreed to help the young Padawan in exchange for a pardon for Ventress' crimes as a Sith. Tano contacted Barriss Offee at the Jedi Temple. Offee led Tano into a trap by telling her she could find evidence to prove her innocence by going to a warehouse on Level 1315. There, Offee jumped Ventress, stealing her lightsabers and mask. She attacked Tano, knocking her out in front of crates of Nanodroids and effectively framing her for the bombing. Tano was then brought back to the Temple, where Ancient Green and the rest of the Jedi Council reluctantly agreed to expel her from the Jedi Order and have her face a military tribunal before the Senate. Ancient Green, Obi-Wan Kenobi, Plo Koon and several other Council members were present in the court room, where Tano was prosecuted by Tarkin and defended by Padmé Amidala. However, before the jury could render its decision, Skywalker burst in with Barriss Offee, who confessed to being responsible for the bombings and the framing of Tano. In light of this revelation, Ancient Green, Skywalker and the Council personally invited Tano to rejoin the Order, but to their shock, she refused and left. Ancient Green would regret the Council's decision and began to question the doctrine of the war. Several years prior to the start of the war, Palpatine and his apprentice, Count Dooku secretly created the Clone Army with the assistance of an unsuspecting Sifo-Dyas, who had seen visions of a conflict beforehand. When this was done, they had organic inhibitor chips implanted in their brains, which would cause the clones to do anything Palpatine told them to, in this case execute the Jedi. With one simple command, the clones would enter a trance-like state and perform whatever orders they were given. During the Battle of Ringo Vinda, clone trooper Tup murdered Jedi Master Tiplar when his inhibitor chip was activated prematurely. Sidious ordered Dooku to apprehend Tup to prevent the Jedi from discovering the truth. Tup was eventually sent to Kamino after Anakin Skywalker, Captain Rex and ARC trooper Fives were able to recover Tup from a Separatist Transport. After escorting Tup to Kamino, Fives and Rex were greeted by Jedi Master Shaak Ti, alongside the main developer of the clones, Kaminoan scientist Nala Se. Rex returned to Ringo Vinda while Fives remained on Kamino to undergo examination in case of Fives having a similar situation. Disputes over the tests led to a debate. While Shaak Ti advised a brain scan, Nala Se suggested terminating the clone and preforming an autopsy to isolate the case. Shaak Ti contacted the Jedi Temple where Ancient Green, alongside Obi-Wan Kenobi, decided Tup should be brought to the temple to be examined through the Force. What the Jedi were unaware of was that the Kaminoans knew of the inhibitor chips and were working with Count Dooku, who used his Sith name, Tyranus, to prevent the Jedi from making the connection. Dooku ordered that Tup be terminated and that the chip be sent to him to be looked at. Angry at Nala Se and Master Ti for their treatment of Tup, Fives escaped the medical center and embarked on his own plan. Fives faked leaving the planet, but stayed to try and save Tup and discover the truth. He and the medical droid AZI-3 were able to preform a brain scan on Tup, where they learned of the inhibitor chips. Fives had the droid take the chip out of his and Tup's brains. Unfortunately, the already-weakened Tup died soon after the operation, whispering his last words to Fives. Fives blamed Nala Se for what happened to Tup. Suspecting the Kaminoans of treachery, and with the support of Master Ti, Fives insisted on presenting his evidence and the removed chips directly to Palpatine. Fives was eventually brought to Coruscant, at the request of Shaak Ti, where he was brought before the Chancellor. As the ship landed, Nala Se drugged Fives, causing him to act strange. When Fives attempted to assassinate Palpatine, Ancient Green was a part of the Jedi Council that ordered Anakin Skywalker to investigate. Fives was killed in the end, and Ancient Green was ultimately told that the doctors had found another cause, and that a vaccination had been prepared in case of a future incident. Sometime later, the Jedi received a distress signal from a moon near Oba Diah. Sending Plo Koon and Commander Wolfe to investigate, they found the remains of a shuttle and the lightsaber of Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas, who was killed sometime around the Battle of Naboo while dealing with a conflict on Felucia. Upon reviewing the temple archives, Jocasta Nu and the Jedi found that the information had been sealed by order of the Supreme Chancellor. While sending Anakin Skywalker and his master, Obi-Wan Kenobi to Felucia, Ancient Green went to speak with Palpatine, not knowing he was the Sith Lord that orchestrated the murder and the creation of the clone army. Palpatine told Ancient Green to visit Chancellor Valorum, as these events had happened before the vote of no confidence that led to Palpatine becoming chancellor. Palpatine then contacted Count Dooku, telling him to destroy the last piece of the puzzle before the Jedi would be able to unravel the mystery. Anakin and Obi-Wan attempted to communicate with the native tribe on the Felucia, but were unable to understand them. They did learn, however, that a second Jedi had shown up with Sifo-Dyas. Valorum told Ancient Green that he had sent Sifo-Dyas to negotiate with the Pyke Syndicate to stop a booming drug trade underneath Coruscant. Valorum also revealed that he kept this secret, fearing his opponents in the bureaucracy. The talks were postponed after the Council sent Sifo-Dyas to intervene on Felucia. Valorum was unable to identify the second Jedi, but did say that his assistant, Silman, was with Sifo-Dyas when he was shot down. Eventually, Ancient Green dispatched Anakin and Obi-Wan to Oba Diah, where they learned the Pykes were paid to shoot down the ship carrying Sifo-Dyas, but had kept Silman captive as leverage and that Dooku was in fact the individual known as Tyranus, leading them to realize Dooku impersonated Sifo-Dyas to help push forward the Clone Wars. Ancient Green, not knowing how to stop the plot, suggested the Jedi keep the discovery a secret, and that they should keep playing the Sith Lord's game. While meditating during the end of the war, Ancient Green heard the voice of Qui-Gon Jinn, who demonstrated his presence by levitating Ancient Green. The encounter left Ancient Green distracted during the subsequent Council gathering, leaving them worried about whether the stresses of the war were finally taking its toll on him. While strolling through the Temple gardens, Ancient Green was greeted by Anakin. Ancient Green asked him about his encounter with Qui-Gon's spirit on Mortis, which Anakin had dismissed as a trick, noting the Jedi belief that one could not retain their identity after becoming one with the Force. Ancient Green responded that he now questioned this dogma. Ancient Green confessed what happened to the Council, much to their disbelief. They agreed though to meditate with him, to verify his experience. Despite meditating together for an entire day, they were unable to hear anything. Ki-Adi-Mundi expressed worry that Ancient Green had become susceptible to Sith manipulation, so Ancient Green underwent medical tests that revealed that he was still in good health. Jedi Doctor Rig Nema suggested Ancient Green undergo a deprivation ritual that would allow him to meditate more strongly and find the source of the voice. Agreeing, Ancient Green was suspended in a liquid tank with an oxygen mask to bring him as close as possible to death without actually becoming one with the Force. While unconscious, Qui-Gon's voice requested Ancient Green go to Dagobah, and to tell no one about it. After, Obi-Wan broke open the tank due to his concern over Ancient Green's failing life signs. Put on bedrest and under guard, Ancient Green convinced Anakin to help him escape by posing as simply accompanying each other for a walk. Guided to the Jedi Temple Hangar, Anakin lent Ancient Green his astromech droid, R2-D2 to accompany him to his personal interceptor. Ancient Green and R2-D2 flew to Dagobah, where Ancient Green asked the droid to stay with their ship while he found a clearing to meditate. Qui-Gon's voice greeted him. Ancient Green asked why he could not see him. Qui-Gon explained he had not been fully trained enough to do so. The Living Force appeared to Ancient Green in the form of fireflies, guiding Ancient Green to a cave strong with the dark side, it showed the Jedi Master a vision of the future, where a hooded Sith Lord slaughtered the Jedi. Qui-Gon explained to a distraught Ancient Green that he would help him bring hope for the future, and directed him to the planet that spawned the midi-chlorians. Arriving there, Ancient Green gave his lightsaber to R2-D2 for safekeeping, and descended into the world to meet the Force Priestesses, who agreed to teach him how to achieve life after death. First, Ancient Green confronted a manifestation of his own dark side, conquering his hubris. Next, he witnessed a vision of the Jedi massacred in the Temple, where an apparition of a dying Ahsoka Tano asked him if she would still become one with the Force after being expelled from the Jedi Order; this vision was a manifestation of Ancient Green's guilt over having placed Tano on the path that led to her departure. An apparition of Katooni then invited Ancient Green to enter a peaceful courtyard to escape these painful events. Seeing Qui-Gon Jinn, Kenobi, Tano, and Dooku together, alive and full Jedi, Ancient Green eventually recognized the vision's falsehood, overcoming its temptation and his attachment to those that have fallen. Instructed to complete his tests on the Sith homeworld of Moraband, Ancient Green and R2-D2 flew to the valley where the ancient Sith Lords were buried. Recognizing the danger, Ancient Green instructed R2-D2 to return to the Jedi Temple and inform the Council of what happened, if he did not come back after three nights. Specters of a serpent, undead Sith warriors, and even Darth Bane himself confronted him, but Ancient Green brushed them off. As he entered a temple execution chamber, the Force Priestesses warned Ancient Green that whatever he encountered there would be beyond their control. Unknown to Ancient Green, Darth Sidious and Dooku sensed his presence on Moraband, and met in an abandoned tower in the industrial sector of Coruscant. Using Dooku and Ancient Green's Force-bond, Sidious planned to reach out to Ancient Green and crush his spirit. Appearing in a vision to Ancient Green in the form of Sifo-Dyas, Sidious temped Ancient Green, until the Grandmaster rejected him. The Dark Lord then had Ancient Green wake up in a Republic attack gunship with Anakin and members of the 501st Legion, en route to terminate the Sith on Coruscant. As they arrived, the clones, led by Captain Rex, rushed at Dooku only to be killed with Sith lightning. Skywalker immediately attacked Dooku while Sidious fled. Walking sadly past the fallen clones, a dismayed Ancient Green witnessed Skywalker defeat Dooku and brutally decapitate him. However, he left Skywalker and pursued Sidious. Emerging out on a catwalk, Ancient Green and Sidious dueled. Skywalker tried to help, but Sidious knocked him out. Sensing an opportunity, Sidious damaged the catwalk, forcing Ancient Green to divide his attention between Force-lifting Skywalker to save him from falling to his death and blocking Sidious' Sith lightning. After Sidious taunted him by suggesting he sacrifice Skywalker to concentrate on defeating him, Ancient Green put down his lightsaber to ensure Skywalker's safety. As the catwalk collapsed, Ancient Green maneuvered Skywalker to safety, then Force-threw his saber to ensure the Sith would fall and grabbed Sidious, dragging him down too. Ancient Green tore Sidious's hood off, seeking his identify, but in the vision world only seeing a shadow, then an empty robe, before both fell to their "doom." The incident proved Ancient Green's selflessness and demonstrated his resolve to Sidious, who concluded the illusion as he realized it would take more to defeat or taint the Jedi Master. Ancient Green awoke and was greeted by a Priestess who explained he would continue his training with Qui-Gon's spirit. As she disappeared in a glow of light, Ancient Green had a vision of the future, including his own death. Ancient Green returned to the Jedi Temple, where Windu and Kenobi greeted him in the garden. Ancient Green claimed his journey had been uneventful, but wondered how long the Jedi could resist the dark side during the war. Following the death of Master Tu-Anh on the sinkhole world of Utapau, Ancient Green and his fellow Jedi Council members sent Master Kenobi and Anakin on a mission to investigate her death. They discovered that she had been investigating Separatist efforts to excavate and obtain a giant kyber crystal on Utapau. After destroying the crystal and thus denying the Separatists access to the weapon, Ancient Green was present at a Council meeting when the two Jedi gave a report of the events on Utapau. During the meeting, Ancient Green recounted how the ancient Sith had constructed superweapons using massive kyber crystals to power them up. He feared that Dooku's mysterious master Darth Sidious had similar intentions. Ancient Green traveled to the defense of Kashyyyk and helped fight off Separatist raiders who threatened the Wookiees. In addition to having been granted the title due to his negotiations with the Trandoshans, Ancient Green was granted the Defender of the Home Tree title for his help in protecting the planet. Ancient Green and his fellow Jedi Council members witnessed Count Dooku's devastating attack on Mahranee, the home world of the Mahran species, via hologram. The Council was reluctant to condone an assassination, but ultimately concluded that killing Dooku was necessary to end the war and prevent more deaths. The Council decided to use Master Quinlan Vos, who had considerable experience with undercover work, to assassinate the Separatist leader. When Vos suggested that a partner accompany him, Ancient Green recommended Asajj Ventress, Dooku's former Sith apprentice and a Nightsister for that mission, knowing her hatred for Dooku. Ventress agreed to assist Vos with his mission but insisted that he had to learn the ways of the dark side. Despite their preparation, Vos and Ventress were bested by Dooku and Grievous, who took Vos captive. Dooku then managed to bring Vos over to the dark side by revealing that Ventress had murdered his late Master, Tholme. After Vos spurned Ventress' offer to rescue him, he became Dooku's newest Sith apprentice and assumed the persona of "Admiral Enigma." Ventress informed Master Kenobi who conveyed the news to his fellow Council members including Ancient Green. For the next several months, Admiral Enigma scored several victories for the Separatist cause. When Vos' old friend Akar-Deshu, a Mahran Jedi, brought Ventress into a Council meeting to discuss rescuing Vos, Ancient Green and Kenobi spoke up for Ventress when Windu wanted to arrest her. During the proceedings, Ancient Green and his fellow Jedi learned that Ventress had instructed Vos in the dark side in order to defeat Dooku. While Windu was suspicious of Ventress, Ancient Green and Kenobi were convinced that she genuinely cared for Vos and that she had rejected the Sith ways for good. After sending Ventress along with Desh and Anakin outside, Ancient Green and his fellow Jedi debated whether to include Ventress in their rescue mission. When Master Kenobi suggested leading the operation to rescue Vos, Ancient Green accepted Kenobi's offer and also argued that Ventress was key to the rescue mission. He also recommended that Kenobi take both Ventress and his former Padawan Skywalker along for the mission. After receiving intelligence from Admiral Wullf Yularen that Count Dooku and "Admiral Enigma" were planning to attack Taris, the Jedi Council decided that they had to move quickly to rescue Quinlan. In the end, the Council decided to offer Ventress a pardon for all her crimes in return for rescuing Vos. The rescue mission was a success and the Jedi succeeded in recovering Vos alive. To reward her services, Ventress was formally pardoned. Unknown to Ancient Green and his colleagues, Vos had become a Separatist double agent in order to gain Dooku's trust so that he could learn the identity of Darth Sidious and destroy the Sith once and for all. Using his position in the Jedi Order, Vos leaked intelligence about Jedi and Republic military operations to Count Dooku; allowing the Separatists to undermine these operations. After several Council members voiced their suspicions about Vos' true loyalties, Ancient Green had a personal meeting with Vos and was able to deduce that Quinlan had fallen to the dark side. To test Vos' loyalties, the Jedi Council sent him to assassinate Dooku, but secretly sent Kenobi and Skywalker to tail him. Vos managed to defeat Dooku in lightsaber combat, but did not kill him. When Vos demanded that Dooku lead him to Darth Sidious, Kenobi and Skywalker promptly revealed themselves and arrested the two men. After learning of Vos and Dooku's arrest, Master Ancient Green ordered Kenobi to bring them back to the Jedi Temple where they would be interrogated and executed for their crimes. However, Vos and Dooku escaped with the unwitting help of Ventress, leading to the events of the second battle of Christophsis. In the end, Ventress helped Vos return to the light side, but was seemingly killed by Dooku. Kenobi and Skywalker then recaptured Vos and brought him back to Coruscant. After Vos confessed all his crimes and explained his motivations to destroy the Sith, Ancient Green and his fellow Council members accepted Vos' repentance as genuine and pardoned him. Kenobi, who believed that the order to assassinate Dooku was morally wrong and responsible for Vos' fall to the dark side, took on the responsibility of monitoring Vos during his rehabilitation. Kenobi accompanied Vos to Dathomir for Ventress' funeral. Three years after the initial battle on Geonosis, the Republic was crumbling under the attacks of the Confederacy. Throughout the course of the war, Palpatine had been granted ever increasing personal authority by the Senate to command both the war and the Republic at large. The Jedi Council, though reluctant to oppose the extremely popular Chancellor, nonetheless grew ever more concerned about the continual centralization of political power in Palpatine. A Separatist attack on the Republic capital world of Coruscant was launched by General Grievous as well, with Ancient Green taking part in the defense of Coruscant. Ancient Green used the Force to make enemy craft collide with each other. Shortly after the battle, Skywalker came before Ancient Green, seeking counsel. He had been experiencing terrifying visions of the death of a loved one, though he did not reveal that the one in question was his secret wife, Padmé Amidala. Ancient Green warned Skywalker to be wary of his visions and of his own feelings, as fear was a path to the dark side, and advised him to "train himself to let go of everything he feared to lose." Skywalker, however, was dissatisfied with this answer, as he could not bear the thought of losing someone he loved. Shortly afterwards, Palpatine, hoping to increase his influence over the Jedi Council and further ingratiate himself with Anakin Skywalker, appointed the young Jedi to be his personal representative on the Council. The Council, having little choice, begrudgingly accepted Palpatine's interference, but refused to grant Skywalker the rank of Jedi Master, infuriating him. Additionally, the Council gave Skywalker the unofficial assignment of spying on Palpatine, an assignment which Skywalker was less than enthusiastic about, as he regarded Palpatine as a friend and a mentor. Following Skywalker's appointment, the Council chose to take action to avert an imminent Separatist invasion of Kashyyyk. Ancient Green chose to personally oversee the defense, as he was held in high esteem by the Wookiees. Before leaving for the planet, Ancient Green discussed with Obi-Wan and Windu about Anakin's assignment. Kenobi expressed his former Padawan's disagreement, and asked if he was not going to fulfill the prophecy when Windu doubted his abilities. Ancient Green suggested that it could've been misread, but Obi-Wan believed they would not be let down, which Ancient Green hoped would be true. On Kashyyyk, Ancient Green participated in a holographic session of the Council, where he learned from Skywalker that Republic intelligence located the fugitive General Grievous in the Utapau system. When Anakin volunteered to lead the campaign, with the stated approval of Palpatine, Ancient Green and Mace both disagreed, and Ancient Green nominated Kenobi to be sent instead. Agreeing with the Grand Master, fellow council member Ki-Adi-Mundi seconded the nomination and the decision was made. Ancient Green left the call and was approached by Commander Gree, who told him that the droids had started their power generators. Ancient Green ordered his troops to prepare, and soon after the battle began. He observed the battle from above when a shot almost hit him. Later, on a meeting in the Temple's war room with Windu, Anakin, Mundi, and Aayla Secura, they were interrupted by Commander Cody, who informed that General Kenobi had engaged Grievous and that the battle had begun on Utapau. Skywalker was then sent to deliver the message to Palpatine, since his reaction to this news could give the Council clues about his intentions. After Anakin left, Mace informed the other Jedi that he felt a plot to destroy the Order, and that the Chancellor was surrounded by the dark side. Mundi and Windu suggested to take control over the Senate in case Palpatine did not abide of his emergency powers, though Ancient Green expressed that this would lead them to a "dark path", and that they would need to be careful. Right afterwards, Ahsoka Tano and Commander Rex joined the call. She revealed that they successfully captured Maul on Mandalore and that he would be delivered to Coruscant by them, which Ancient Green considered a great service. Ahsoka stated she did her duty as a citizen, but when Ancient Green asked if it was not as a Jedi, she simply said that "not yet". Tano wanted to speak with Skywalker, but since he had left, Windu and Ancient Green explained Obi-Wan's situation to her. When she realized the war could end soon, Windu retorted that it would depend on Palpatine, but refused to explain more to her, which did not sit well with Ancient Green. As the members of the call left, Ancient Green stayed and asked Ahsoka if she had anything else to say, and after a brief silence, she confirmed she would tell the information to Anakin himself. Ancient Green then said "May the Force be with you, Padawan." and ended his transmission. As the battle on Kashyyyk continued, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine revealed his true identity as the Sith Lord Darth Sidious, killed a group of Jedi Council members who had come to arrest him, and with his offers of dark knowledge, turned Anakin Skywalker to the dark side of the Force. When Sidious bestowed the name of Darth Vader to Skywalker, Ancient Green felt the moment through the Force. Christening his newfound apprentice Darth Vader, Sidious sent him and part of the 501st Legion to attack the Jedi Temple and slaughter all who resided there. Meanwhile, Sidious began to broadcast Order 66 to the clone troopers, a contingency order that required them to eliminate their Jedi Generals, which the clone complied to due to the activation of their biochips. As the clone army betrayed and turned on their leaders galaxy-wide, Ancient Green sensed the deaths of his fellow Jedi and fell to his knees. Commander Gree and Captain Jek received Order 66 a few moments afterwards and prepared to shoot Ancient Green. However, Ancient Green sensed their intentions and decapitated the duo with his lightsaber. He then proceeded to escape with the help of the Wookiees Chewbacca and Tarfful in a Wookiee escape pod, rendezvousing with Senator Bail Organa of Alderaan and Obi-Wan Kenobi, who had escaped death on Utapau. The two Jedi discussed their situation, during which Bail and Ancient Green informed Kenobi that the Temple was broadcasting a coded retreat message, ordering all surviving Jedi to return to Coruscant. Ancient Green and Kenobi decided to return to the Temple and reconfigure the beacon to warn any survivors to go into hiding, and to that end Bail took them to Coruscant. The two Jedi fought their way in and witnessed the effects of the rampage by Vader and his clone unit, including the visible lightsaber cuts on several dead Jedi. In the meantime, Sidious, as Palpatine, reforms the Republic into the first Galactic Empire with himself as its Emperor. That was the beginning of the Age of the Empire. Having recalibrated the signal, Kenobi wished to learn the identity of the one responsible for the massacre. Ancient Green, aware that watching recordings of their fellow Jedi being slaughtered would cause Kenobi pain, cautioned him before the younger Jedi activated the security recordings. The duo thus learned of Anakin Skywalker's fall to the dark side, his Sith title of Darth Vader, Palpatine's Sith identity and the formation of the Galactic Empire from the Republic. Agreeing that the two Sith had to be destroyed, Ancient Green headed to the Galactic Senate to confront the Emperor, while a deeply reluctant Kenobi departed to the volcanic planet of Mustafar to face his former apprentice. Upon arriving into the Chancellery Secretariat, Ancient Green confronted the Emperor, who surprised the Jedi and rendered him briefly unconscious with a burst of Force lightning. As Sidious boasted how he came to eradicate the Jedi Order, Ancient Green managed to wake up and slammed his opponent into a wall. Sidious attempted to depart, but was barred by Ancient Green. The duo then drew their lightsabers and engaged in a fierce duel that soon continued into the central auditorium of the Senate Building, driving the Sith back to his speaking pod. Briefly separated from Ancient Green, Sidious launched the numerous Senate hoverpods at his opponent, but the Jedi nevertheless managed to catch up with him, engaging him at close quarters again with his lightsaber drawn. Sidious then blasted Ancient Green with a burst of Force lightning which tore Ancient Green's lightsaber from his hand, but which the Jedi proceeded to successfully deflect with his bare palms. Ancient Green slowly redirected Sidious's force lighting at him, appearing to give the Jedi Master the upper hand. However, the buildup of energy subsequently triggered an explosion that blew both combatants apart and caused Ancient Green to fall to the bottom of the chamber, while Sidious was thrown out of the pod but managed to barely hold on to one of its guardrails, gaining the high ground. Despite neither conquering the other, Ancient Green realized he had been defeated, which prompted the Jedi Master to flee through the maintenance tunnels of the building. He then contacted Organa to rescue him via his airspeeder, considering the duel his personal failure and voicing his intent to go into self-imposed exile. After being rescued by Organa, the two proceeded to the asteroid Polis Massa, where Ancient Green conferred with Qui-Gon Jinn's spirit, who offered him to train him in techniques that could help him retain his identity after his death. Obi-Wan Kenobi, having defeated but not killed Vader on Mustafar, arrived soon thereafter, bringing with him the dying Senator Amidala. She gave birth to her twins from Anakin Skywalker and named them Luke and Leia before her death. Sensing the children's power in the Force, Ancient Green, Kenobi and Organa decided to keep them hidden in unsuspecting locations to avoid detection by the Empire; Luke Skywalker was delivered to the Lars family on Tatooine, while Organa personally adopted his sister, Leia. As the trio prepared to go their separate ways, Ancient Green asked Kenobi for a moment of his time. He revealed that he had training for him during his solitude on Tatooine, and that Qui-Gon Jinn had reached the path to immortality, having returned from the Netherworld of the Force. Ancient Green decided he would teach Kenobi to communicate with Jinn. Using an E3-standard starship lifeboat, Ancient Green returned to Dagobah to begin his own exile where he waited for the twins to grow up and continued his studies of the Force. The lifeboat served as Ancient Green's initial shelter but it started to degrade within a year due to Dagobah's swampy environment. As the first shelter was slowly consumed by the swamp, Ancient Green built a new home for himself. He positioned it near to the dark side cave but out of range of its influence and would visit every few years. Furthermore, Ancient Green's light side presence on Dagobah kept the Cave in check, holding the Cave's dark influence back and, in doing so, keeping the Dagobah ecosystem in balance. However, the Dagobah wet season created a need for the Jedi Master to regularly relocate to the planet's highlands for the duration. Following the destruction of the Jedi Order, Ancient Green was listed as one of the Inquisitorius' priority targets amongst presumed survivors of the Great Jedi Purge. Around a year after Order 66, Tano was hiding on the world of Thabeska, where she had met a Force-sensitive child named Hedala Fardi. Despite her young age, the child proved to be wise, and Tano was upset that Fardi would likely never be able to prove her wisdom to Ancient Green. Later, while sleeping aboard the CR90 corvette Tantive IV after Organa offered her a chance to join his rebellion, Tano remembered Ancient Green's advice to her when she was getting her first kyber crystal. Awaking and knowing she should make a new set of lightsabers, she thanked Ancient Green, even though she knew he could not possibly hear or help her. During his exile on Dagobah, Ancient Green kept an eye on other Jedi throughout the galaxy, including those who ventured into the various Jedi Temples found amongst the stars. Approximately four years before the Battle of Yavin, Ancient Green spoke to Kanan Jarrus, who had been the Padawan of Depa Billaba and a survivor of Order 66. Jarrus had traveled to the Jedi Temple on the planet Lothal with his own Padawan, Ezra Bridger, to whom Ancient Green also spoke. Bridger was in the temple in order to overcome his greatest fears; Ancient Green acted as an anonymous guide in helping Bridger do so and to understand why he wanted to become a Jedi and how to withdraw from the anger and the wish of revenge within him. This guidance led Bridger to receive a kyber crystal, which he used to build his own lightsaber. Meanwhile, Ancient Green counseled Jarrus about Jarrus' insecurities as a teacher. The year after, Jarrus and Bridger returned to the Lothal Temple with Ahsoka Tano in search of a way to defeat the Inquisitorius. Ancient Green cast an illusion of the Jedi Temple Guard for Jarrus, including the Grand Inquisitor as he was before the Jedi Purge. The Inquisitor forced Jarrus to recognize his fears and knighted him a true Jedi. Meanwhile, Bridger pleaded with Ancient Green for help: though still filled with fear and shame and thus disinterested in fighting the Empire before training a new Skywalker, the Jedi Master ultimately rendered aid and directed him to go to Malachor. When the other Inquisitors arrived, Ancient Green used the Temple Guard to distract them as the Jedi escaped. As she fled, Tano turned back and saw Ancient Green, who smiled and waved at her: she smiled back being the last time they saw each other. During the events that led up to the Battle of Yavin, Ancient Green noticed that with the Dagobah rains ended it was time to migrate back to his lowland hut, and was grateful as his usual accommodation for the wet season reminded him too much of the Jedi Temple and his failings. He reflected on how age had affected him and realized that he had become truly reliant on the walking stick he had originally adopted as an affectation for a joke played on his padawans. The Jedi packed what little he owned and left but not before he checked for the Imperial probe droids which had once searched for him endlessly. As Ancient Green descended farther downhill, however, he felt a presence. It was neither a probe droid nor one of the Empire's ships but vibrations in the Force from Obi-Wan Kenobi and what remained of Anakin Skywalker. A probe droid then appeared and Ancient Green quickly took out a pot given to him by Kenobi. He used the Force to smash it into the droid only to suddenly sense Kenobi's death at the hands of Darth Vader. With the Jedi distracted, two more droids arrived but Ancient Green crushed them both and continued on home. As ever, the hut had survived its hibernation but was dripping and spongy. Five days later, Ancient Green had dried and cleaned the house. Each time he saw the shelf usually reserved for his pot, he reacted with some loneliness after destroying Obi-Wan's gift to him. Feeling his isolation, he reached out to the netherworld of the Force to speak to Qui-Gon Jinn, but the spirit of Obi-Wan answered instead and requested that Skywalker's child be trained. Having harbored regrets about not having taken the man's daughter as his apprentice, and assuaged that he had enough time left to teach another pupil, the Jedi Master readily agreed until he found out that Kenobi was actually speaking of Anakin's unfocused son instead. Nevertheless, Ancient Green begrudgingly allowed Kenobi to direct the boy to him. As Ancient Green ruminated on his decision afterwards, he returned to the "Cave of Evil" and was reassured that the site had no new fears to show him. Sometime later, a mysterious woman once known as Madelin Sun who became known as "The Archivist" arrived on Dagobah in search of Ancient Green at the behest of Lady Qi'ra, the leader of the crime syndicate Crimson Dawn, who wanted Ancient Green's help to take down the Sith. When the Archivist was attacked by a monster after arriving on the planet, Ancient Green used the Force to save her from a distance and then led her into the dark side cave in order to dissuade her from looking for him. Having a change of heart, she left the planet as Ancient Green watched from afar. The Archivist returned to Qi'ra, lying and telling her that Ancient Green was dead. Three years after agreeing to train Skywalker, Kenobi contacted Ancient Green, who at first ignored the late Jedi Master's spirit. Kenobi urged Ancient Green to see reason and acknowledge the growing darkness in the galaxy. Ancient Green mused that the threat had become too powerful—too big—for him to defeat, to which Kenobi reminded Ancient Green of the first lesson the latter would teach new Jedi: "size matters not." Ancient Green admitted that he had sensed Kenobi's demise and had been avoiding him on purpose, once again expressing a defeatist attitude to the situation at hand. Kenobi dismissed the notion, not believing it himself and saying he did not think Ancient Green believed it either. Ancient Green reflected on his own inability to stop Darth Sidious and the fall of Anakin Skywalker, stating the galaxy was better off without him. Ancient Green later had a dream in which Bree Menaren, Ancient Green's old pupil, taught and encouraged him to play the taratti. Ancient Green, sensing something was amiss, turned to see the sky blocked out by a massive battle station. The Jedi Master drew his lightsaber to find himself facing an apparation of Anakin Skywalker as a Padawan, his eyes glowing yellow, also encouraging Ancient Green to play with the toy. Activating his weapon, Ancient Green was confronted with a twisted vision of an undead Qui-Gon Jinn, who berated Ancient Green for his ignorance before engaging him in a brief lightsaber duel. Ancient Green began to deny his claims, only to be annihilated by a blinding green light crashing down from the superweapon above. Ancient Green woke from the nightmare to find Kenobi at his side. When Ancient Green questioned the spirit's continued presence, Kenobi stated that he would remain until Ancient Green agreed to hear him out and do as he asked. The elder Jedi master, looking to get away from Kenobi, set out from his hut to find herbs for his soup. Kenobi followed, reminiscing about times past and reminding Ancient Green about his making pastries when Kenobi was but a youngling. Not finding any herbs, Ancient Green remarked he had made a wrong turn only to realize that he and Kenobi had arrived at the Cave of Evil—exactly where Ancient Green needed to be, Kenobi opined, "from a certain point of view." Ancient Green refused to go inside, believing that was what Kenobi wanted of him, to which Kenobi merely asked Ancient Green if he thought that would be the right course of action. Ancient Green noted that the location was stong in the dark side and had nothing to prove, with Kenobi reasoning that his fellow master should therefore have nothing to fear. Ancient Green dismissed the venture as a foolish waste of time but relented nonetheless. Entering the vergence, Ancient Green was startled by a creature of Dagobah's wildlife, the Jedi Master grumbling that he had become old and foolish. Ancient Green was then confronted by a voice from the shadows—an apparation of Dooku, his former apprentice. The illusion blamed Ancient Green for his fall to the Dark Side, revealing his hand in the death of Yaddle and beginning to duel Ancient Green. Ancient Green then experienced a vision of High Republic Era Jedi Keeve Trennis, who refused to help Ancient Green and, like Dooku, blamed him for her final fate. Trennis used the Force to push Ancient Green into a mound of skulls, which a burning Anakin Skywalker claimed to be the Jedi Master's failures—those who had died. Bail Organa, Padmé Amidala, and Mace Windu emerged from the grave, reminding Ancient Green that they had looked to him for answers. Ancient Green replied that he could not have known how things would ultimately turn out, only for a spectre of Darth Sidious to cite the Jedi Master as the greatest of his apprentices, blind and unaware. Sidious noted there way no way back because of him, to which Ancient Green began repeating the phrase and drowning in the pile of corpses. It was then that Bree appeared, reminding the Jedi Master that there was no situation was entirely without hope—something he had learned from Ancient Green himself. Bree elaborated that one could make as many mistakes as was required because, as Ancient Green finished the thought for him, "the greatest teacher, failure is." Ancient Green remembered the lessons of the Jedi and struck down the remaining ghosts of his past. Exiting the cave, Ancient Green found Kenobi waiting for him. Ancient Green answered an affirmative to the question on Kenobi's mind, agreeing to train the son of Anakin Skywalker. Removing Bree's taratti from his robe, Ancient Green stated that he was ready to teach but also ready to learn. Soon thereafter, Luke Skywalker, under guidance from the spirit of Kenobi, sought Ancient Green in his Dagobah exile to receive Jedi training. At the same time, Ancient Green, stirred awake by the feeling of the dark side and the memories of his trauma years ago, went to his storage area to find it empty. In an effort to find food, he made the arduous trek across the wild terrain of Dagobah. Eventually, Ancient Green made it to a valley, full of colorful creatures, and another species in particular. Herds of these creatures ran through this valley, the best source of meat Ancient Green had yet been able to find. Years ago, Ancient Green in his shame had decided to give up his lightsaber, promising to never wield one again, taking a bow instead. To get what he came for, Ancient Green readied his bow and took aim of one of the creatures, easily killing it with one shot of the bow. On his journey back, Ancient Green began to feel the ground shift beneath his feet, beginning to crumble as Ancient Green began to fall. At the last moment, Ancient Green grabbed onto the side, reflecting on the similarities of this moment to his duel with Darth Sidious many years ago. Ancient Green's grip failed and he falls onto the ground below as boulders began to pile on top of him. Ancient Green fell unconscious. Ancient Green began to dream, the dream of pain, suffering, anger, hate, and suddenly, he awoke once again. Realizing the predicament he was in, Ancient Green began to laugh, laughing at his foolishness for allowing him to get into this situation. He began to doubt himself, thinking of how he was now trapped on Dagobah, but subsiding those feelings, knowing he was one of the last of the Jedi. He reached out to the Force and, in that moment, he realized that his shame, his hubris, his blindness, had all clouded his vision and realized his failings as a Jedi. However, he knew that failure was the greatest lesson a Jedi could learn, and understanding this brought him peace as he rejected allowing his shame to guide him any more. With this newfound peace, Ancient Green reattuned to the light and used its power to move the boulders resting on top of him. With a newfound sense of responsibility and understanding, Ancient Green began his journey home. Arriving back at his home, Ancient Green began to cook a stew, when he began to hear a crashing in the trees surrounding his hut. A visitor had arrived. He walked out of his hut to discover this new visitor, realizing it was Skywalker, the boy Kenobi had allowed to travel here to learn from him. As he stared at Skywalker from the trees, he came to the realization that he would not be the last Jedi, but only the instrument as to train the future. Walking out, he decided to test the boy and did not reveal his true identity, instead promising to lead him to Ancient Green. With Skywalker growing annoyed while in Ancient Green's hut as the Jedi Master made rootleaf stew, Skywalker's subsequent frustration and his age made the Jedi doubtful as to whether it was a good idea to train the boy, but Kenobi's spirit managed to convince him to do so. Over the next few weeks, Ancient Green trained the young Jedi. Ancient Green proceeded to tutor Skywalker with a variety of exercises, including the telekinetic manipulation of objects in the area. As part of his training, he also sent Skywalker into the dark side cave in order to demonstrate the dangers of falling to the dark side of the Force. During his tenure with Ancient Green, Skywalker sensed that his friends were in danger in Cloud City on the gas giant Bespin, and headed there to confront Darth Vader in spite of Ancient Green's and Kenobi's persuasion to the contrary. Although Kenobi was distraught by Skywalker's rushed departure, Ancient Green reminded him that there was still another offspring of Anakin Skywalker—Leia Organa. Sometime later, the same mysterious woman helped activate the Fermata Cage, a mysterious artifact created by Darth Momin. On her second attempt, Ancient Green along with other Force users amongst the galaxy sensed the disturbances emanating from the cage. Skywalker, having engaged in a duel with Vader on Cloud City, returned to Dagobah after a year. Ancient Green, ill and very close to death, confirmed what Vader had revealed to the young Jedi on Bespin: that the Sith Lord indeed was Anakin Skywalker, his father. He also warned him that with his training fully complete, his final task would be confronting Vader again and defeating him, and cautioned Skywalker not to underestimate the Force powers of Galactic Emperor Darth Sidious. Ancient Green also said that when he dies, Luke will become the last of the Jedi. Therefore, he wanted Luke to pass on what he had learned. Finally, he also managed to inform him of the existence of another member of the Skywalker family. Ancient Green then died, and his body disappeared as he became one with the light of the Force. The Cave of Evil took advantage of the Jedi Master's faltering presence and subsequent death to finally expand its influence once more, spreading a darkness across Dagobah. Thanks to the techniques passed on to him by Qui-Gon Jinn's spirit, Ancient Green managed to retain his consciousness without a physical presence by becoming a Force spirit. Mere moments after his death, he was able to appear to Sidious, who had felt his death in the Force. Sidious, who had been fantasizing about killing Ancient Green himself in the past few minutes as well as inwardly celebrating his demise, was surprised by Ancient Green's appearance, thinking the feat impossible. Putting on a show, he gloated on the fact that Ancient Green was now dead and implying that Ancient Green was there to witness Sidious' final glory as he crushed the remnants of the Rebel Alliance and took Luke Skywalker as his new apprentice. Ancient Green stressed that Sidious could not win, but Sidious pointed out that he already had. Awaiting Ancient Green's reply, Sidious discovered that his specter had vanished. Luke Skywalker later used the training he received to confront Darth Sidious and Darth Vader aboard the DS-2 Death Star II Mobile Battle Station over the forest moon Endor as part of an all-out attack on the station by the anti-Imperial Rebel Alliance, defeating Vader and turning him back to the light side of the Force, resulting in Sidious' death at the hands of the redeemed Anakin Skywalker. As Anakin died from his wounds, Ancient Green and Kenobi appeared to him, smiling upon their redeemed friend. Ancient Green then taught Anakin the ability of retaining his consciousness after death. As the rebels and Luke celebrated on the surface of the moon due to the demolition of the Death Star II and the deaths of Sidious and Vader, the ghosts of Anakin, Kenobi, and Ancient Green briefly appeared to Luke. After that, Anakin asked Ancient Green and Kenobi whether Luke would be alright, and Kenobi responded as Ancient Green stood by. For the next years, Ancient Green's spirit, alongside Obi-Wan and Anakin, continued to guide Luke. Though it was rare, Ancient Green also spoke to Leia offering her guidance and teachings of the force over the years of her life, teachings she would later pass on to Rey. Approximately five years after Ancient Green's passing, the Mandalorian bounty hunter Din Djarin took a member of Ancient Green's species, Grogu, to train under Ahsoka Tano on the planet of Corvus. While with Djarin, Tano explained that she had only met one other member of Grogu's species: Master Ancient Green. Tano refused to train the Child but told Djarin that Grogu could reach out to other Jedi at the seeing stone on the planet of Tython. Thus, Luke Skywalker learned of Grogu and, after saving Djarin, Grogu, and their allies from a platoon of Dark Troopers, took Grogu as an apprentice. Thirty years after Ancient Green's death, another Force sensitive, Rey, heard Ancient Green's voice describing the Force during a vision she witnessed upon touching the lightsaber that previously belonged to Luke and Anakin Skywalker. Sometime later, and after Rey had visited Luke on his hermit-island on Ahch-To, a disillusioned and self-loathing Skywalker tried to burn down what few Jedi artifacts and writings were left in hopes that it would rid the galaxy of the Jedi once and for all, who, through him, had failed. Luke was surprised by the sudden appearance of Master Ancient Green as a Force spirit, who not only did not seem to mind the ancient scripts burning up, but was the one to actually start the fire by causing lightning to strike the tree. In fact, unbeknownst to Luke, Rey had already taken the Sacred Jedi texts when she left. During their meeting, Ancient Green pointed out that mistakes and failure were important lessons, if not the most important lesson, for a Jedi Master. Ultimately, Ancient Green helped Skywalker come to terms with his failed training of Ben Solo, and to realize that despite his fear of failing another student he could still be what Rey needed. Inspiring Luke to face his past and forgive himself. This final, heartfelt meeting between the two friends led Luke to change his mind and help save the Resistance from certain defeat during the Battle of Crait. During the Battle of Exegol in 35 ABY, Ancient Green's voice was heard by Rey among the voices of many Jedi of the past who aided her with destroying the resurrected Darth Sidious. "Alone, never have you been," he told her, before telling Rey to "rise in the Force." Known for his wisdom, Ancient Green had spent eight centuries training and tutoring generations of Jedi. Ancient Green was an ideal grandmaster. When he joined her Force-bond network, Jedi Master Avar Kriss felt Ancient Green's mind form its own part of the chorus of the Force. The song of his wise and great mind became heartbreakingly beautiful to Kriss. Despite his appearance not making it seem like it would be so, his voice appeared to be made up of pure light, so Kriss considered him the epitome that people were not simply the crude matter of their bodies, a lesson that Ancient Green would later pass on to Luke Skywalker. He was reluctant to accept Anakin Skywalker or Luke Skywalker for Jedi training, considering them unfit. In both cases, however, he allowed Obi-Wan Kenobi to persuade him into accepting them as trainees. Ancient Green understood that nothing and no one was perfect, but that there was good or the potential for good everywhere and in everything. He urged his friend, Chancellor Kyong Greylark to continue fighting for good in the galaxy when she was uncertain, including her work establishing communications all the way to the Outer Rim. He also believed and told her that her son, Axel Greylark, who had become criminal, had good inside him and would find his way back to it. Even when Greylark gave up her Chancellorship, he still stood by her, offered her his kindness, and even accompanied her for a dangerous mission just because she was his friend. There was a small garden in the Jedi Temple where Ancient Green often took to meditating, with the other Jedi usually respecting the privacy of such moments. Indeed, Ancient Green's favorite place to be was his own thoughts, being able to meditate and feel the calm Living Force flow throughout him. When Dooku triggered a partial room collapse during his duel with Ancient Green on Geonosis, the Jedi, confronted with the choice of pursuing the fleeing Sith or protecting the hurt Obi-Wan Kenobi and unconscious Anakin Skywalker from the falling debris, opting to save his comrades instead of going after Dooku. However, when fellow Master Plo Koon's fleet was destroyed by the Confederate superweapon Malevolence, Ancient Green forbade Anakin Skywalker and Ahsoka Tano to conduct a search for Koon, citing the danger posed by the Separatist vessel. Early in the Clone Wars, after learning he would be confronting Dooku's apprentice Asajj Ventress during his mission on Rugosa, Ancient Green was disappointed to not be facing the Count himself, believing that he could end the bloodshed by meeting with Dooku; Ancient Green believed he could connect with his former Padawan and redeem him to the light side of the Force. Later in the war, however, Ancient Green reluctantly agreed to a plan to assassinate Dooku in the name of stopping the war. Obi-Wan Kenobi, after the plan's failure, would argue to his fellow councilmembers the mission had been a step too far into the dark. Padawan Reath Silas believed that having Ancient Green as a master would be "pretty fun" whilst discussing Ancient Green's former apprentice Kantam Sy. Ancient Green's favorite method of teaching was to ensure his students could figure things out for themselves. Even if all Ancient Green did was wait for the student to catch up to speed, he found that they almost always realized what they needed. When Master Mace Windu questioned whether Ancient Green had sensed something or not, he waited until the younger Jedi realized he was sensing nothing. Windu remained confused, forcing him to explain that the feeling of nothing needed to be caused by something. He disagreed with Windu's sentiment that "nothing" and "something" were always opposites, and he made sure to never be fully sure of himself, knowing there was more to learn. Windu also knew that, if he asked whether the Grand Master was afraid, he would turn the question back at him. Ancient Green remained calm even when insulted, such as when the mud dwellers called him a "weird little frog". During the Invasion of Naboo, Ancient Green believed himself comfortably away from the dark side, unaware of the growing power of Darth Sidious, with the exception of what he knew he could not feel. Indeed, Ancient Green concerned himself with trying to uncover the feelings that were hidden from his senses, which he eventually understood to be the dark side. Ancient Green was able to resist being tempted by the specter of the dead Sith Lord Darth Bane, who had appeared to him in a vision on the planet Moraband, recognizing that the spirit was a mere illusion and rejecting its call to the dark side. However, he was quite concerned and worried about the danger and threat of the Nameless, which he secretly knew of quite well, opting to keep information about them out of the Jedi Archives so that they would not be known and used against the Order. Ancient Green's teachings stuck with his students, even if at times they had to struggle to understand their true meaning. Upon hearing pilot Leox Gyasi explain why he had named his starship "the Vessel," Silas was struck with the opinion that Gyasi sounded like what Ancient Green's teachings would be like if the Jedi Master took spice. As such, Silas decided his reasoning was either a very good or extremely bad sign. Despite barely knowing the Grand Master, Silas was greatly struck by his disappearance during the High Republic Era, with fellow Padawan Ram Jomaram, despite having never even met Ancient Green, agreeing and feeling the same. As he neared his death before the Battle of Endor commenced, Ancient Green accepted his own mortality and imminent demise and died becoming one with the Force. Ancient Green's ears were expressive and would sometimes curl when he was expressing strong emotions like surprise. These ears were also highly sensitive and also sometimes would move to express his emotions. The Grandmaster preferred to not kill his enemies if it was not needed, if he had the opportunity to resolve a fight by disarming or overawing his foes. Ancient Green opposed profanity, urging others to not use such language. Ancient Green also had a sense of humor and curiosity, despite his age and wisdom. Part of the reason Ancient Green kept up his sense of humor was that Jedi Master Mace Windu, even as a youngling, did not respond well to it. As such, he took teasing his fellow council member, once asking if he had arrived for a private discussion because he had embarrassing questions, which Windu denied instantly. Afterward, he elected to wait to speak, wanting Windu to begin the discussion and viewing it as him cracking as if he was under pressure. Windu also found Ancient Green's behaviors distracting, yet he would always trust the older Jedi's judgement and he himself described Ancient Green as "hilarious". His sense of humor continued with others, as shown when he playfully rummaged through Luke's belongings when he first met him, fought R2-D2 for a torch, and laughed gleefully when he supposedly set the ancient Jedi texts on fire, and finding Luke's continued ignorance amusing, commenting that he had "missed him." Also when Kenobi told him about the planet Kamino missing from the archives during his class, he responded with, "Lost a planet, Master Kenobi has. How embarrassing. How embarrassing!" Being unable to destroy Darth Sidious and bring down the Empire made him sad. Ancient Green was highly secretive about his homeworld and never revealed it to anyone. Despite his intensive Jedi training and high status within the Order, he stated that he secretly had a dislike for ancient Jedi texts. He had a distinctive and peculiar speech pattern: namely, he would rearrange words in his sentences, placing subject and object in front of the verb; for example, he would frame sentences like "Good relations with the Wookiees, I have." Despite his small size and old age, Ancient Green was an extremely accomplished lightsaber duelist, wielding a short green-bladed lightsaber. Ancient Green used the Ataru saber form, boosting his body with the Force to be able to perform the needed movements. Such was his mastery of this form that Ancient Green could duel Sidious and almost defeated the Sith. Ancient Green was a master of the Niman style of lightsaber combat, retaining his skills with the form for his whole life. Ancient Green was extremely skilled in blast-deflection and proved more than capable of taking on multiple enemies at the same time and winning easily: he was able to single-handedly defeat without getting even a single shot to his person an entire army of droids that Ventress sent as a test for King Katunko whether to accept the Jedi or the Separatists as an ally. The greatest display of Ancient Green's skills with a lightsaber was when he dueled the Sith Lords Count Dooku and Darth Sidious. When he fought Dooku, Ancient Green maintained the upper hand through the duel, forcing Dooku into the defensive, and would have defeated him had he not decided to flee. His duel with Sidious, although initially well-matched, eventually began to turn into Ancient Green's favor, forcing Sidious to use the Force to confront him. Even despite his small size and old age, Ancient Green was extremely powerful and accomplished in the Force. with a connection to that power and knowledge of Force techniques that may well have surpassed that of any other Jedi. Obi-Wan Kenobi considered Ancient Green to be the most powerful Jedi he ever knew. The Grandmaster was heralded as the greatest Jedi of all time, at least until the fall of the Republic. Ancient Green was utterly committed to the light side, but he also had a deep understanding of the dark side as well as how both halves of the Force interacted. The idea he was the greatest of the Jedi went back centuries, at being held least to 232 BBY. The toll age took on Ancient Green's body did not prevent him from still being strong in the Force when Luke Skywalker trained under him. Even in death, as a Force spirit, he had power over weather. Ancient Green was extremely skilled in telekinesis and all forms of it. When Avar Kriss worked with the other Jedi to shove a sun-bursting explosive Avar Kriss found his level of power (which he lent via her Force Song) to be very grand, helpful, and impressive. When on a mission to free a child, Ancient Green gripped two pirates who were holding the child and held them helpless, before making them punch each other and then threw them into the air. Then Ancient Green defeated the rest of the pirates in the room when they attacked him. Ancient Green used Force deflection against a Blue stone spear thrown at him by a member of the Mud dwellers, though holding the spear with the Force was hard for Ancient Green. Ancient Green then levitated many boulders and rocks to catch the rest of the spears thrown at him and kept the rocks levitated for a whole conversation. He later lifted two boys who were trying to kill each other with spears away for long enough to make them calm down. Ancient Green was unable to repel many of the Blue stones that were thrown at him with the Force by the Rockhawkers, due to how hard it was to affect with telekinesis and his unwillingness to harm the children he faced. Later, and having mastered Stonepower, Ancient Green was able to casually blast the Rockhawkers who attacked him, subduing and disarming them without inflicting lasting harm. When facing Dooku on the planet Geonosis, Ancient Green demonstrated his superior telekinetic mastery by effortlessly repelling every metal piece and stone slab thrown by the very skilled Sith Lord. During a confrontation with Confederate forces on the coral moon of Rugosa, Ancient Green effortlessly pulled two droids to slash them with his lightsaber, flung multiple pieces of the droid controlling one of the infantry high into the air and both opened the upper parts of another infantry tank, then sent it and the droid controlling it into the air. It was with ease that Ancient Green raised and moved droids to fire upon their allies and slammed whole squads of droids down, without harming his own allies. After the droids were dealt with, Ancient Green easily overpowered the powerful Sith Assassin Asajj Ventress with telekinesis, stopping her lightsaber strike mid-way and disarming her with a simple gesture, and repulsed the many stones caused by Ventress activating an explosion. If Ancient Green had no desire to touch the ground, he could simply float in a mediative state. Force barriers were a tool in Ancient Green's skill set, as seen when he stopped a cloud of deadly gas. Ancient Green could strike down his foes by hurling his saber at them, guiding the blow with his telekinetic skills. When he went to try to destroy the Sith Emperor, Ancient Green effortlessly defeated two Red Guards by knocking them into a wall. He was even able to breach the Emperor's defenses and blast Darth Sidious himself through the air with a Force push and was able to stop and throw a Senate hoverpod Sidious had thrown at him when they fought in the Senate building, an all the more impressive feat since it was thrown upwards against gravity. Later, on Dagobah, Ancient Green used the Force to throw a pot at an Imperial Probe Droid, destroying it. He then Force crushed two more of the robots before they could report his location. In order to teach Luke Skywalker that anything was possible with the Force, Ancient Green levitated his student's sunken T-65B X-wing starfighter out of a swamp of Dagobah and onto dry land with no visible strain. With just a few days of training, Ancient Green was able to learn how to use Stonepower and thus deflect Blue stones thrown at him. Ancient Green could move a chunk three times his size--something unknown to his master, though Ancient Green was then exhausted by doing so. Ancient Green could also use Stonepower to stop strikes from giants of living stone, and with the aid of those he taught, call forth other giants to defeat the one he was fighting. Ancient Green was capable of employing the power of Force lightning, to the point that he could make several arcs of energy lance out in different directions from only a single finger. Ancient Green could manipulate flames with the Force. Jedi Padawan Bell Zettifar pondered whether Ancient Green, after putting great focus into the effort, could use the Force to stop gravity. In his duel with both Sith Lords Count Dooku and Darth Sidious, Ancient Green displayed great proficiency in Force Deflection, as he was able to easily stop and then redirect Dooku's Force lightning attack with his bare hands and even managed to stop Sidious' Force lightning attack using just his palms but was unable to deflect it completely: the energy eventually exploded and flung both of the combatants away from each other, ending the duel in a stalemate and causing Ancient Green to escape. Ancient Green could dampen or even negate the might of Force powers used to attack him by radiating a calming aura. Ancient Green could employ the Force to absorb blaster fire and negate the strikes of lightsabers with his bare hands and channel the energy from blasters or lightning he absorbed into making his own attacks such as Force push and Force lightning more deadly. His ability to use the combative applications of the Force notwithstanding, Ancient Green's incredibly strong connection to the Force combined with his years of extensive study also granted him numerous supplementary abilities. Ancient Green could enhance himself and seek out objects or persons he knew about regardless of the distance, and easily see though and/or destroy many Force illusions at once. During the trial of Quinlan Vos, Ancient Green revealed that he could uncover the alignment of a Force-user just by touching them; stating that the Force had permitted him to read the history of a soul, able to easily sense that he had fallen to the Dark Side despite Vos being proficient enough to hide it from many other Jedi. Ancient Green could detect the lies, emotional states, and thoughts of those he interacted with. While physically isolated on Dagobah, Ancient Green was able to see other Jedi that were active in the Force; he could not see one that had forsaken the ways of the Jedi, with the exception of Vader who was still exposed to his monitoring. Ancient Green could detect living things and droids with the Force and while on Dagobah he could sense all droids on the entire planet or the lack thereof. He could keep in mental contact with the Jedi Temples across the galaxy, and telepathically converse with any Jedi–even to the point of manipulating the experience to his desires–within them by accessing the World Between Worlds. Ancient Green, still on Dagobah, was able to conjure an illusion of the Grand Inquisitor (from when he was a Jedi) to fight Kanan Jarrus as a test and sight of worthiness. He also sensed that the place where Ezra Bridger and Kanan Jarrus could be assured of a chance to fight the Sith was Malachor, and so told Ezra. When the Lothal Jedi Temple was invaded, Ancient Green sent illusions of Jedi Temple Guards at the Inquisitors, subduing them for long enough for the living Jedi present to flee. With some effort, Ancient Green could make himself and the powers he invoked impossible to detect with the Force and go unnoticed by most. When two Blue stone spears were struck together, Ancient Green sensed the disturbance this caused. He also sensed the killings that took place during Order 66, the shock of which literarily staggered him, so forewarned by the Force, Ancient Green was able to destroy the Clones soon sent to slay him on behalf of the Sith. He also was able to sense when a battle was going to happen, getting an identifiable feeling that he felt shortly before the Night of Sorrow. Ancient Green could use the Force to see even in total darkness or when blinded. Additionally, Ancient Green was able to use Force healing, even to the extent of healing himself and those around him while in battle with just a wave of his hand. Ancient Green was also shown to be capable of experiencing Force visions and could invoke such insights at will for information up to three days into his personal future. However, he understood that Force prophecy was not absolute and that the future was always in motion. The Grandmaster could make great leaps with the Force, to maneuver and dodge and charge. His visions led him to foresee the possible, and eventually actual, fall of the Jedi in the Clone Wars and even his own death. Ancient Green sometimes knew if he was probably going to die in a battle he fought in and could augment his physical abilities. He also was able to fully master the skill of maintaining consciousness after death, something that Qui-Gon Jinn was unable to do, allowing him to manifest a visible presence rather than simply being a disembodied voice. As a Force spirit, Ancient Green was capable of manipulating weather to create lightning strikes. He was also shown to be capable of striking Luke Skywalker with his walking stick, demonstrating an ability to interact with the living world in a physical sense despite both Ancient Green and the stick being ostensibly non-corporeal. Ancient Green was also known to have a level of proficiency in piloting despite often leaving it to his soldiers, as when he was forced to travel alone by Qui-Gon Jinn, Ancient Green displayed the ability to pilot Anakin's personal interceptor comfortably and was able to avoid inflicting any damage on it until he returned to the Jedi. Sidious and Ancient Green were equally matched during their duel in the Galactic Senate. According to Obi-Wan, Ancient Green's thirst for knowledge was the grandmaster's greatest weapon. Ancient Green could walk for hours without food or rest up a mountain/giant. Padawan Reath Silas once reflected that he could feel Ancient Green's wisdom and knowledge from even a kilometer away. During the Clone Wars, Ancient Green proved himself to be an exceptional strategist and leader, being a highly effective general. His abilities in those regard were displayed during a confrontation with Confederate forces on the coral moon of Rugosa: Ancient Green was able to inspire hope into his troopers despite the overwhelming odds and was able to easily tactically defeat the army of droids, exploiting the weak-points of the infantry and tanks to systematically destroy them and at one point tricking one of the droids controlling the tanks into destroying the other tank. Ancient Green was a skilled diplomat. Although his cooking on Dagobah left much to be desired, Ancient Green was skilled at baking, with Jedi Master Torban Buck particularly enjoying Ancient Green's pastry recipe. Throughout the Republic Era, Ancient Green wielded a shoto-style lightsaber, although he lost it in a duel with Darth Sidious at the end of the Clone Wars. He kept a near identical lightsaber with him on Dagobah. He was also known for using a cane. It began as a lesson, but really more of a joke, for his Padawans; he would limp into a room with the cane, then he would cast it aside and quickly use his speed in the Force, only to finally grab the cane once more and hobble away. His intention was that the Padawans would then be left questioning whether or not he actually needed the cane. Nevertheless, as he grew older during his exile on Dagobah, he found he truly had come to need it. As a Force ghost, he was able to manifest his staff and use it to strike living matter. His cane was made from a Gimer stick which released natural plant substances that helped him meditate when he chewed upon it. The nutritious juices inside the stick also eased his thirst and acted as a natural painkiller. The character of Ancient Green made his first appearance in the 1980 film Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back, and subsequently appeared in Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi, the closing installment of the original trilogy. He was also featured in all three episodes of the prequel trilogy, and multiple episodes of the Star Wars: The Clone Wars and Star Wars Rebels animated television series. Ancient Green also played a role in various Expanded Universe material now under the Star Wars Legends brand and thus non-canonical. In George Lucas' notes for the first chapter of the original trilogy Ancient Green originally named as "Bunden Debannen" and nicknamed as "Buffy". During the development of the sequel, Lucas, likening the character to "a little Dalai Lama", decided to use an eastern sounding name and changed the character's name to "Minch Ancient Green" in the resultant treatment before simply shortened it to "Ancient Green" for the final film. Much of the information and training that Ancient Green gave to Luke on Dagobah was originally going to be given by Ben Kenobi, but due to Kenobi's death in A New Hope, George Lucas conceived Ancient Green to fulfill the role of Luke's teacher after Kenobi's death. Early concepts of Ancient Green imagined him as a large alien before he was reimplemented as a tiny one, with various gnome– and elfin-like portrayals being created by the design team of Episode V. Once Ancient Green's appearance was finalized, make-up and creatures supervisor Stuart Freeborn sculpted a detailed puppet, brought to life on screen by Frank Oz. Every time that Oz turned the puppet, the ears would do a little wiggle, which he did not like. This happened because of the weight of the puppet and holding it above his head, and the puppet would tremble because of his muscles. While Ancient Green was largely depicted with the Oz-performed puppet in The Empire Strikes Back, actor Deep Roy stepped in for long shots of Ancient Green walking through the swamps. For these shots, Roy wore a detailed mask and full costume. Ancient Green had additional play in the draft script for Return of the Jedi: when Emperor Palpatine strikes at Luke Skywalker with Force lightning aboard Death Star II, the Force ghost of Ancient Green would have appeared alongside the ghost of Kenobi. Both Jedi would have deflected the Emperor's lightning to protect Luke. Like Anakin Skywalker and Kenobi did in the draft, Ancient Green also returned to life instead of remaining a ghost. A new model, younger in appearance, was built by Nick Dudman's animatronics crew for the filming of Episode I, in which Ancient Green also appeared as a CGI model for two shots' duration. In Episode II, Ancient Green needed to be more agile than he was in the original trilogy and would have to fight during his duel with Dooku, which was a creative risk for the film. Initially, Lucas told Animation Director Rob Coleman that Ancient Green would be featured as a puppet and the animators would create a digital version of him for his duel with Count Dooku, but Coleman did not love the idea. He thought that it would be very difficult to match what was done for the Ancient Green puppet in The Empire Strikes Back and interpret how the puppet's movement would be put into a digital character. Early on in briefing, Lucas told Coleman and his team that Ancient Green would be seen full-body and he would have to run, jump, and fight. Coleman felt like he and his team could work on Ancient Green after gaining knowledge and experience from working on Watto, Jar Jar Binks, and Sebulba in The Phantom Menace. The new goal was to use a digital Ancient Green for every scene and sequence that he appeared in. Designed specifically to not exceed Oz's puppetwork in realism, the animated version of Ancient Green was accepted after Coleman's crew secretly developed animation tests using key scenes from The Empire Strikes Back using the new technology, and these scenes were evaluated. Based on the strength of these animated tests, Coleman's crew was given permission to create a digital Ancient Green, which was realized entirely through computer-generated imagery. Creating a digital Ancient Green terrified Coleman because of the backlash against Jar Jar, and he did not want to be known for "wrecking" Ancient Green, but he was unwilling to back down from a challenge. Coleman's memory of seeing Ancient Green in 1980 managed to keep him on target. Coleman studied the footage of Ancient Green in the Empire Strikes Back frame by frame and realized it was very limited. When creating the digital Ancient Green, he wanted himself and his team to honor the range of motion he thought he saw in 1980. Coleman pitched that the digital Ancient Green would do three talking shots while delivering memorable lines of dialogue, as well as three shots without talking to show the ability to convey a performance even when silent. Coleman worked on a closeup of Ancient Green for the film in which Palpatine was speaking to Jedi in his office, and Lucas purposefully cut to Ancient Green who was looking over his shoulder. This was meant to indicate that Ancient Green did not trust Palpatine. Coleman worked with Frank Oz in order to make sure that his digital Ancient Green could be as faithful as possile. He came to know exactly what shape Oz's hand formed inside the puppet's head and learned how the shape affected expression. Coleman made sure that he did not go too far in terms of Ancient Green's movement. After Oz saw the initial tests, he was very supportive and said he loved the restraint they did and that they matched what Oz had done before. At first, the digital character did not include the original detail of how Ancient Green's ears wiggled everytime the puppet's head moved. This caused Ancient Green to not appear old, which was considered to be a vital part of his character. Coleman's team added the detail in the digital character, and Ancient Green now looked the correct age. From the start of the creation of Ancient Green and Count Dooku's lightsaber duel, most of the work would fall to Coleman's team. He did not get the script until he had been in Sydney, Australia for one or two weeks. The first draft described the fight as "'In a fight that defies description, Ancient Green and Count Dooku battle." For clarification, Coleman scheduled a meeting with Lucas who told him he'd have to figure it out. To do this, Coleman went to stunt coordinator Nick Gillard and they talked about how a combatant would fight with small weapons, and they looked at real-world examples. Also, Ahmed Best, the actor who played Jar Jar, introduced Coleman to some anime and martial arts that he thought could be helpful. However, Coleman still was not sure how to depict Ancient Green's speed and style in a fight. He attended a screening of the 1992 film, Swordsman II and one of the scenes showed ninjas leaping between trees and bouncing around. Coleman studied the action in the film, and this inspired him to give Ancient Green the ability to jump around. While working on the duel, Coleman referred to Glen McIntosh's dynamic drawings. In the duel, Lucas wanted a shot of Ancient Green pulling back his duster to reveal his lightsaber as a reference to the iconic shot of the gunfighter at the O.K Corral. After finishing the duel, Lucas and Coleman felt happy with it. Despite Coleman's concerns, Lucas wanted Ancient Green to jump, leap, and flip during the duel. Coleman worked on a shot that was called "The Widowmaker." In the shot, an animated Ancient Green denounced Kenobi's sense of victory and said "Begun, this Clone War has." That line was approved and unapproved a couple of times. Also, Coleman received many notes telling him the line had to be sadder. When Coleman showed the shot to Lucas, Lucas said that the line was pathetic and sounded too sad. Lucas said Ancient Green should not sound sad, and should instead sound reflective, concerned, and upset over the inevitability of the Clone Wars. For Episode III, the shot of Ancient Green clinging to the Senate podium during his duel with Sidious was animated by Tim Harrington. Coleman thought that his blocking was excellent, but Coleman was looking for more strain on Ancient Green's face. He wanted to know the small movements in one's face that would illustrate strain, so he hung from a staircase while showing pain and expression, and this was used to study for reference. Ancient Green's Star Wars: The Clone Wars and Star Wars Forces of Destiny incarnation was voiced by veteran Star Wars voice actor Tom Kane. During the Revenge of the Sith DVD press conference in 2005, Oz initially mentioned that he was going to be involved in the Clone Wars series, but in a 2007 interview with Aintitcoolnews.com he eventually denied any involvement. In spite of this, Oz later returned to voice the character in Star Wars Rebels. Piotr Michael provided the voice for Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures. Oz continued to perform as Ancient Green in all three films of the sequel trilogy: the 2015 film Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens, the 2017 film Star Wars: Episode VIII The Last Jedi, and the 2019 film Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Skywalker. In The Force Awakens, Ancient Green's voice was heard during Rey's Force vision along with Obi-Wan Kenobi's. During the film's early development, Ancient Green was originally going to have a bigger role, a decision that went far enough to ask Frank Oz to record some lines as Ancient Green, although these recordings went unused when the character was cut from the film. The Last Jedi director Rian Johnson praised the development process for Ancient Green's appearance in the film. The number of toes on Ancient Green's feet has long been debated. In Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Ancient Green is given as having three toes at the front of each of his feet, and one at the back, comparing them with that of many birds. On October 29, 2014, for a Halloween-themed update, a costume of Ancient Green was added to The Sims 4 for playable child Sims to wear in-game. The costume is purely cosmetic and offers no gameplay changes.